# Dashas - Knowledge Base
**Compiled from 15 authoritative sources**
**670 high-quality extractions**

---

## Overview

This document contains comprehensive knowledge about dashas extracted from classical and modern Vedic astrology texts.

---

## Teachings by Source

### 2015.150536.Marriage-Married-Life-And-Children_text

**1 key sections**

#### Extract 1 - Page 209

! 201 “Sir, the planetary period of Rahu runs for 18 years. If so, when my husband will meet me and I will have the pleasure of moving with him”, asked the lady quite interestly. Madam What you told is correct. Rahu rules 18 years. Naturally you are interested to know which year, which month and which day you will meet your husband and move with him with comfort and joy. Our ancient sages havedividcd^he planetary periods into sub periods. Each such sub period rules certain period which runs for a few years. Again each sub period is divided into sub sub periods which runs only for a few months. Planets posited favourably with the major lord will always help, assist and co-operate with the major lord in giving the expected result. Planets inharmoniously disposed with the major lord will bring obstacles and cause delay. Whethera planet is favourably placedornot,is to beascertain- ed from the longitudinal distancebetweenplanets. Saturn is very favourably placed towards Rahu. Mercury is also favourably placed towards Rahu. The first sub period in the Rahu major period is Rahu sub period itself which runs 2 years 8 months and 12 days. The sub period of Rahu is again divided into sub sub (anthra) periods. The first sub sub (Anthra) period in the sub period ofRahubelongs to Rahu himself which runs for 4 months, 25 days and 48 Ghatis from 17-2-1968. Rahu is a strong significator. Therefore, it is during this period i.e., between 17-2-1968 and 13-7-1968 y ou will meet your husband. On what date? The ruling planets at the time ot query are the ruling planets at the time offructification of the expected result. The week day the query was put is Thursday. Thursday is ruled by Jupiter. The query was put when Leo was rising in the east. Leo is ruled by Sun. The Moon is in the constellation Avittam, in sign Aquarius at the time of query. Avittam is ruled by Mars. Aquarius is ruled by Saturn. Therefore the ruling planets at the time of query are Jupiter, Sun, Mars and Saturn. 26

---

### A Text book of astrology_Anil Kumar Jain

**4 key sections**

#### Extract 1 - Page 80

Calculation of Antardasha After calculation of mahadahsa, antardasha is determined. As the tenure of a mahadasha is long, it is divided into small parts. During the mahadahsa of a planet, this does not give results in own antardasha but becomes effective when the antardasha of another planet starts. The formula for calculation of antardasha is that multiply the total years of operating mahadasha by total years of mahadasha of planet whose antardasha is to be calcu- lated and divide it by 120. For example for calculation of Moon antardasha in Sun mahadasha Mahadasha years of Sun x Mahadasha years of Moon 120 Antardasha of Moon = 6x10 = 6 months 120 Similarly antardasha period of all planets can be calculated. This is indicated in the table below: Antardashas in Vimshottari Mahadasha Antardasha in Mahadasha of Sun Planet Sun Mon Mar Rah Jup Sat Mer Ket Ven Year 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Month 3 6 4 10 9 11 10 4 0 Day 18 0 6 24 18 12 6 6 0 Antardasha in Mahadasha of Moon Planet Mon Mar Rah Jup Sat Mer Ket Ven Sun Year 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 Month 10 7 6 4 7 5 7 8 6 Day 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 A Text Book of Astrology 77

---

#### Extract 2 - Page 81

Antardasha in Mahadasha of Mars Planet Mar Rah Jup Sat Mer Ket Ven Sun Mon Year 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 Month 4 0 11 1 11 4 2 4 7 Day 27 18 6 9 27 27 0 6 0 Antardasha in Mahadasha of Rahu Planet Rah Jup Sat Mer Ket Ven Sun Mon Mar Year 2 2 2 2 1 3 0 1 1 Month 8 4 10 6 0 0 10 6 0 Day 12 24 6 18 18 0 24 0 18 The antardasha can also be calculated by the help of Table in ephemeris. Balance of Saturn mahadasha is 10 years 11 months 3 days. It means at the time of birth 8 years 0 months 27 days were spent. If we look in the Antardasha Table of Vimshottari dasha in Ephemeris, the antardasha of Venus ends in 9 years 11 months 21 days of Saturn mahadasha, At the time of birth Saturn mahadahsa had passed 8 years 0 months 27 day i.e. at that time antardasha of Venus in Saturn mahadasha was operating. If we subtract spent 8 years 0 month 21 days from 9 years 11 months 21 days balance 1 year 10 months 24 days will be balance antardasha of Venus in mahadasha of Saturn. By adding this balance antardasha in date of birth, the date of completion of Venus antardasha can be calculated. The details of Vimshottari Dasa and periods assigned to different planets have already been discussed above. The main period running at a particular time will be the lord of Nakshtra in which Moon is posited. Depending upon the longitude of Moon and by calculating the degrees of the particular Nakshtra already passed, we can calculate balance of dasa of main planet on proportionate basis. However, for this purpose we can make use of above table which serves as a ready reekoner to calculate balance of main period depending upon the longitude of moon. 78 A Text Book of Astrology _. _

---

#### Extract 3 - Page 79

Duration of Saturn mahadasha in 800 kala =19 years Duration of Saturn mahadasha in 460 kala =19 , 460 800' = 10 years 11 months 3 days Note : The last pages of Ephemeris contains table of spent vimshottari dasha. The balance dasha can also be calculated by its help. By adding the balance period of dasha in date of birth the time of completion of dasha can be known. By addition of tenure of other dashas, their completion time can be known. For example date of birth is 1.2.1969. The balance of Saturn dasha is 10 years 11 months 3 days. This should be added in date of birth. YYYY MM DD Date of Birth 1969 02 01 Balance of Saturn Dasha (+) 10 11 03 End of Saturn Dasha 1980 01 04 Duration of Mercury Dasha (+) 17 00 00 End of Mercury Dasha 1997 01 04 Duration of Ketu Dasha (+) 07 00 00 End of Ketu Dasha 2004 01 04 Duration of Venus Dasha 20 00 00 •(+) End of Venus Dasha 2024 01 04 Duration of Sun Dasha (+) 06 00 00 End of Sun Dasha 2030 01 04 Duration of Moon Dasha (+) 10 00 00 End of Moon Dasha 2040 01 04 Duration of Mars Dasha (+) 07 00 00 End of Mars Dasha 2047 01 04 76 A Text Book of Astrology

---

#### Extract 4 - Page 78

Calculation of Dasa & Antardasa In Indian astrology timing of an event is predicted by Dashas. In dashas the most popular and accurate system is of Vimshottari Dasha. The total duration of all dashas is 120 years. Our sages have assumed life to be of 120 years. For calculation of mahadashas the position of Moon at birth time is considered. The sign where Moon is situated is the birth sign of the native and nakshatra where Moon is posited is birth nakshatra. The mahadasha at birth time starts with planet who is lord of birth nakshatra. The duration of mahadashas of various planets is as below: Planet Sun Moon Mars Rahu Jupiter Saturn Mercury Ketu Venus Year 6 10 7 18 16 19 17 7 20 The sequence of mahadashas is same as shown above i.e. after Sun comes Moon, Mars after Moon, then Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury, Ketu and Venus. The duration of antardashas is in the same proportion and sequence is also the same. The balance duration of a mahadasha at the time of birth is calculated as below: The spent degrees of birth nakshatra indicate the balance duration of mahadasha. The span of a nakshatra is 13°20' = 800' For example the longitudes of Moon are 3S9°00'. According to the table of nakshatras, Moon was in Pushya nakshatra. The lord of Pushya is Saturn, therefore mahadasha at birth time was of Saturn. The duration of Pushya is from 3S3°20' to 3S16°40'. Moon will have to travel 7°40' more to get out of Pushya i.e. balance of nakshatra is 460 kalas. Ending degrees of Nakshatra 3S16°40' Spent degrees of Nakshatra - 3S09°00' Balance degrees = 7°40' = 7x60'+40" = 460' Lord of Pushya is Saturn therefore Saturn mahadasha will operate at the time of birth. Saturn has been allocated 19 years which is equivalent to span of one nakshatra i.e. 800 kalas. The balance dasha will be equivalent to balance span of nakshatra. A Text Book of Astrology 75

---

### A book on Mathematical astrology_Bansal

**6 key sections**

#### Extract 1 - Page 111

110 Mathematical Astrology first antardasha period belongs to the same planet whose mahadasha is divided into antardasha. For example in the mahadasha of Sun, the 1st antardasha will belong to Sun and the subsequent antardashas will follow the same cycle order of dasha system given in Para 13.3 Supra. The period allotted to the lord of each antardasha will be in the same proportion as the antardasha lord has been allotted in the Vimshottari Dasha system of 120 years, say for example we want to know how much will be the antardasha ofMoon in the mahadasha of Venus, we can find it out by the following method: In 120 years system Moon has 10 years so in 20 years (Venus) period it will have 10 = -- x 20 years 120 = 1.667 years or =1 year 8 months By following the above simple mathematical calculation, we can calculate all the nine antardasha of any mahadasha. However a ready made table of these antardashas and pratyantar dasas for all the nine mahadashas is available at page 115 to 124 of Lahiri's Indian Ephemeris for 2011 which may be used by the students with advantage. 143 The same principle as discussed in para 14.2 above is applicable to the pratyantar dashas (Sub-Sub periods) under any antardasha. Similarly, we may work out all the sookshma dashas (Sub-Sub-Sub periods) under any pratyantar dasha and also prana dashas (Sub-Sub-Sub-Sub periods) under any sookshma dashas. This way the time periods is reduced to few hours and minutes only for attempting accurate and precise timing of events by experienced and learned Astrologers.

---

#### Extract 2 - Page 112

Mathematical Astrology Ill However for the purpose of this course, working out the mahadasha and antardashas i.e. Major period and Sub-periods only will suffice as further minute divisions are beyond the scope of this course. 14.4 How to work out present Mahadasha and Antardasha operating on a native Suppose a native is born with a dasha balance of Mars as 3 years-8 months-12 days and his date ofbirth is 14-3- 2002. His present dasha can be calculated as under : Mars Dasha already passed = 7 Yrs (-) 3v 8M 12° = 3y Q3M 18° From the table given at page 115 ofLahiri Ephemeris for 20 II, we see that the sub-period of Saturn in Major Period of Mars ends after 3 years 6 months. Hence balance of Saturn sub period at Birth = 3 years 6 months (-) 3 y 3m 18 days = 0 yrs 2 months 12 days We can now proceed as follows : y MD Date of Birth of native = 2002-03 -14 In Mars Dasha, Balance of Saturn = 0-02-12 :. Ant ar Dasha of Saturn (Mars/Sat) ends = 2002-05-26 Antardasha of Mercury = 0-11-27 End of Mars/Mere = 2003-05-23 Antardasha of Ketu 0-04-27 End ofMars/Ketu = 2003-10-20 Antardasha of Venus = 1-02-00 End ofMarsNen = 2004-12-20 Antardasha of Sun = 0-04-06

---

#### Extract 3 - Page 110

CHAPTER 14 CASTING OF HOROSCOPE VII MODERN METHOD 14.1 Major and Sub Periods of Vimshottari Dasha System Students have seen that the dasha of planets run into sev eral years ranging from 6 years for Sun to 20 years for Venus. With the periods running to as long as 20 years, it will not be possible to give the precise timing of an event. It is of no use to tell the father of a daughter of marrigeable age that from the next month your daughter is to run the dasha of Venus so in that dasha she will get married as Venus is the karaka for marriage. As Venus dasha has to run for 20 years, the daugh ter of the consulter will definitely get married during these 20 long years if the marriage is promised in the horoscope. There fore in order to time the events more precisely our sages have divided these dashas-mahadashas (called as Major period) into antardashas (Sub period), pratyantar dashas (Sub-Sub peri ods) sookshma dashas (Sub-Sub-Sub period) and Prana Dashas (Sub-Sub-Sub-Sub periods) 14.2 An tar Dashas or Sub-Periods In the mahadasha (Major period), of each planet, all the nine planets will have their antardashas (sub periods). The (109)

---

#### Extract 4 - Page 106

104 Mathematical Astrology 13.2 Mahirishi Parashar in his Brihat Parashara Hora Shastram has narrated about 40 types of different dasha sys tems. However, the Pride of the place has been given to the 11 Vimshottari Dasha System 11 The casting of horoscope is not • treated as complete unless it is supported by a proper Dasha System. We therefore propose to acquaint our students with the Vimshottari Dasha system through this lesson. As regards other Dasha systems, those are beyond the scope & purvie.w of the J yotish Praveen course and as the students advance in their study of Astrology they will come to know and learn some ofthese Dasha systems also in due course oftime. 13.3 Vimshottari Dasha System This is one ofthe many Dasha systems given to us by our sages for correct divination and timing of events of a nativity. ln Vimshottari Dasha system the full span of life of a person is considered to be 120 yrs. Each of the nine planets with which we are concerned in the study of Hindu Astrology has been allotted certain years to make up the total as 120 years. Students will recall that while discussing the subject of Nakshatra vide para 3.8 Supra, we had indicated the No. of Years allotted to each Planet in the Vimshottari Dasha system. We reproduce these below for easy reference of the students: 1. KETU 7 Years 6. RAHU 18 Years 2. VENUS 20 Years 7. JUPl TER 16 Years 3. SUN 6 Years 8. SATURN l9Years 4.MOON lO Years 9. MERCURY 17Years 5.MARS 7 Years TOTAL 120 Years Students will do well to remember the order and the term allotted to each planet in Vimshottari Dasha Systems as men tioned above.

---

#### Extract 5 - Page 113

112 Mathematical Astrology = End of Mars/Sun 2005-04-26 = Antardasha of Moon 0-07-00 = End of Mars/Moon 2005-11 -26 So we can say the native was running antar dasha of Saturn in Mars up to 26th May, 2002, thereafter Mercury up to 23rd May, 2003, Ketu upto 20-10-2003, Venus upto 20-12- 2004, Sun upto 26-4-2005 & lastly antara of Moon upto 26- 11-2005. As the Antardasha of Moon in Dasha of Mars is last, with the end of Mars/Moon, the Mars Dasha itself will be over. The next dasha (major period) i.e. of Rahu will start w.e.f.26.11.2005. EXERCISE 14 Question : Please work out the present Dasha and An tar Dash a running in the case of following : (a) All the 10 cases mentioned at serial (a) and (b) of exercise 13.

---

#### Extract 6 - Page 10

12. Chapter 12 Casting of Horoscope V Condensed Ephemeris 1900-1941 97-101 13. Chapter 13 Casting of Horoscope VI (Modern Method) Vimshottari Dasha System, Janma Rashi, Janma Nakshatra, Basis for Vimshottari Dasha System. Calculation of Vimshottari Dasha Balance at Birth 103-107 14. Chapter 14 Casting of Horoscope VII Major and sub-periods, Vimshottari Dasha, Antar Dasha 109-112 15. Chapter 15 Casting of Horoscope VIII Traditional Method, Rashiman, Calculation of lagna at Delhi, Calculation of planetary position (Longitudes of planets), Calculation of Dasha Balance 113-119 16. Chapter 16 Bhavas Bhavas X Cusp, MC etc. 121-130 17. Chapter 17 Shadvargas, Method of Preparation of Divisional Charts 131-138 18. Chapter 18 Refreshers, Calculation of Ascandant and Planetary Positions 13 9-14 7 19. Saptavarga Calculation 148-150 20. Index 151-153

---

### A.K. Gour_Astrology of Professions

**6 key sections**

#### Extract 1 - Page 205

Computer Professionals Astrology of Professions native completed her graduation in Arts in the year 1996 and thereafter joined the Computer Software course with NIU in Sep 1996. At the time of her computer education the dasha running was • Jupiter/Mercury (13-03-1995 to 19-06-1997) • Jupiter/Ketu (19-06-1997 to 25-05-1998) • Jupiter/Venus (till 25-01-2001) The individual completed most part of her education in the Antardasha of Mercury and Ketu. Mahadasha lord jupiter is the lord of 3rd and 6t)l house. Jupiter is retrograde and is placed in the 8th house aspected by lagna lord Venus, and AmK Mars from the lagna. Antardasha lord Mercury is the lord of 9^' and 12th house and is placed in the lagna with Sun, AmK Mars and is aspected by Ketu. Ketu the other AD lord is placed in the 7^' house aspected by Sun, Mercury and AmK Mars. Ketu is also aspected by Saturn 5^ lord placed in the 10th house. Period of profession Aug 2000 to Nov 2001 During this period the individual joined service with NUT and ET&T. The Dasha running was Jupiter/Venus and jupiter/Sun. Antardasha lord Venus is lagna lord and 8th lord. Venus is placed in Z'* house and is in mutual aspect with the MD lord Jupiter. Venus is placed in the Nakshatra of Mercury and in Navamsha and Dashamsha; it is conjunct with Mercury aspected by Ketu. The other AD lord Sun is the 11^ lord from lacjna and is conjunct with Mercury, AmK Mars and is aspected by Ketu. From Nov 2001 till date. During this period the individual changed her job and joined a computer institute as a tutor. The dasha running was jupiter/Moon. Moon is the lO111 lord from lagna and is placed in the 5th house of education. Jupiter and Moon are in mutual Kendras giving rise to a Gajkesari yoga. Moon is placed in the Nakshatra of Rahu who in turn is placed with the AmK Mars. 11^ lord Sun and 9th /12^ lord Mercury. From the above it can be seen that the Ketu, Mercury and their interaction with AmK plays an important role in the dasha running at the time of education and start of career related with computers. Ilfustration - 3 We now take up a horoscope of a successful businessman who has done M.Sc. (Chemistry) and is now in computer related business. 208

---

#### Extract 2 - Page 87

Periods of Rise in Profession Astrology of Professions his goal. Timing of Events Mahadeva, the celebrated author oP the Jataka tattwa, opens the fifth chapter, the "Dasha Tattwa" of his treatise with the following shloka: "Graho Bhavo Rashi Drigyoga Jeevikadiphalam Swadsantardsbayam Dadati." "A planet produces its results of placement in a house, location in a sign, its aspects, its conjunctions, the means of livelihood attributed to it. during its dasha and antardasha." This gives us an idea of two aspects of study of a planet or a combination. One of them is the promise inherent in a horoscopic chart because of the position of a planet in the chart and the other qualifications that attend upon it, e.g., its locations, its conjunctions, its aspects, and the like. This is the static factor. The other and no less significant is the dynamic factor, which decides when this promise would fructify. This depends upon the dasha system which is the celestial timer which indicates the time when an event would happen. In order to study the periods of professional rise, naturally the inherent promise of the chart has to be integrated with the dasha order. The relevant parameters The important parameters that need to be considered are briefly mentioned hereunder: • The three divisional charts - The rashi chart forms the basis of all horoscopic analysis. Study of its more subtle form, the Navamsha along with the rashi chart is essential. In addition, in order to study professional rise (or fall), the Dashamsha is another divisional chart, which must be keenly studied. In all charts, the tenth house indicates profession. In addition, the lagna of the dashamsha Is also important. • The Pad a Lagna - The Pada Lagna is the sign located as far from the lagna lord as the lagna lord is from the lagna. The Pada Lagna acts as an alternative lagna and the tenth from the Pada Lagna also indicates profession. • Important Dashas - According to Parashara, the dashas of the lagna lord, the tenth lord and the exalted planets augur well for the status of an individual. These dashas also indicates rise in profession. A connection of these dasha lords with the seventh house or the seventh lord improves their fructification. 90

---

#### Extract 3 - Page 111

Profession - Focussed Analysis Astrology of Professions influence. The native's service would be friction free (6^ house) and retirement free {12th house). He would be working till the fag end of his life. Dasha We now take a few dasha based probes in this horoscope. The career to start should show a link between L, 6 H/L and 10H/L, if it is to be a service-oriented career. The 10L (Saturn) and the 6L Mercury are together in the 2nd house in natal chart. Saturn the 10L aspects Mars the LL who is placed in Cancer in 4th house. Moon is the significator as well as the lord of 4th house. Mars the LL may give his results in the Dasha/AD of the Moon. Mercury the 6L is also Martian located as it is in Mrigshira, Mars' constellation. Saturn is in Rohini in Moon's constellation and is conjunct with Moon in Moon's house of exaltation. Moon has connected one with the three lords of t. 6 and 10. Its dasha, Antar Dasha, could start the native on the road to a career. The period of Rahu commences in the 20th year of the native. It is the period of 18 years. It is this, which would decide the profession of the native. This Rahu is in Sun's house and is in the constellation of Venus. Sun would decide the native's exterior and Venus would craft his interior. Sun and Venus are both under the influence of Mars. Sun by being in Mrigshira and Venus by being placed in Aries. Mars aspects 10H, is aspected by 10L (Saturn) and in Dashamsha is LL conjunct with Saturn. Saturn is 10L of Dashamsha and Mars is the LL of dashamsha. A career in the uniform is visible. Rahu would give the results of a Mars oriented Sun and Venus. In Rahu/Rahu/Moon, the native embarks on the road to a career in the Air Force. In Rahu/ Jupiter/Moon he is commissioned- jup is the 9th lord aspecting 9th house. Jup in Dashamsha aspects both the LL and the 10L of the Dashamsha from the 5th house. Note the presence of 5 planets in airy rashi in the Dashamsha and the aspects of 3 of them on 10L and LL of Dashamsha from Libra and aspect of 10L (Saturn) on Ket in Gemini. This is a sufficiently potent "airy" push to project a person in the prdfession of a "Fighter Pilot" the exterior is complete. It is devised by Rahu in Sun's house. Now lets see the story of Rahu in Poorva Ashadha the Venusian constellation. Venus is soft, artistic, dignified, 'Venus is musical, Venus is dramatic. There is one more side of Venus in this horoscope. In Taurus the house of Venus are placed the lords of 3, 5, and 10 houses. Venus is thus a patron for authorship/writing of this horoscope. Rahu/Mercury/Venus - He learnt classical music. See the two 114

---

#### Extract 4 - Page 110

Astrology of Professions Profession - Focussed Analysis are placed In the 6th house. Mercury is exalted and Sun is the 5 L, Mercury Is AK and Sun is AmK, This combination in Navamsha is yoga producing. The 10L (Saturn) Is in the lagna, 10H gets strong, as it is aspected by its lord, the 6th has exalted Mercury in it and the lagna is Vargottama. The professional field is bright and is full of successes. Analyse it as an Independent chart for profession. Dashamsha This is the clearest Indicator of profession. LL and 10L are together in lagna. The person is a thorough professional. LL and 10L are aspected by 5 planets, jupiter the 91 aspects from 5H. Sun the 5L aspects from 7th house. Venus the 7th L aspects from his own house. Mercury the 6L aspects from 7th house, as does Rahu from 9H. The 4th lord Moon is mutually aspecting jupiter in 5/11 axis fate (9L, jupiter) gets to give happiness (4L, Moon). A profession of flying was given by 3 planets in Libra an airy sign aspecting 10L and LL in the lagna. The Moon, in Aquarius, another airy sign aoquesised and mentally attracted the native to the thrills of flying. Dashamsha lays down the road map of the profession. In this Dashamsha, it would be worthwhile to examine two signs in depth. These two signs are the ones that are left out when counting for Dashamsha in the natal chart. In any chart the Dashamsha covers 10 signs only. In the charts where Lagnas are odd the Dashamsha finishes in the lO"1 house counting from lagna. The 11*1 and the 12th houses are left out. In the case of even signs, where the commencement of the counting for Dashamsha is from the 9th house, the vacant houses/signs are the 7th and the 8th. Note where these two signs are located in the D- 10 chart. The lords of these two signs, the house placement of these two sign in Dashamsha and the planets there in, hold the Karmic key. See it in this case. The lagna is odd. The two vacant sings are the ones that are In the 11th and the 12th house. They are Aquarius and Pieces. Now move to Dashamsha- These two houses are the 11th and t2th houses in D-10 also. Moon is placed in the 11th house and is aspected by jupiter. The lords of these two sings are Saturn and jupiter. The Dashamsha ascendant is Aries and has "Anant" as its codal name. The Karmic key to the profession is with jupiter who as the lord of one vacant house aspects the other vacant house (11th). This jupiter brings in wisdom. This results in colleagues seeking guidance from the native. The native explains intricate professional points to his compatriots and gains recognition. jupiter/Moon opposition in 5/11 axis guarantees it. The 6th and the 12th house of the Dashamsha are bereft of any planetary 113

---

#### Extract 5 - Page 90

Astrology of Professions Periods of Rise in Profession the native sudden and unexpected gains and recognition. The auspiciousness of Jupiter is further confirmed in the Navamsha where, as the tenth lord, it exchanges houses with the ninth lord Saturn, resulting in a potent Raja-Yoga. A similar situation persists in the Dashamsha where, as the lagna lord and the tenth lord, Jupiter exchanges houses with the fourth lord Mercury. Saturn (Antardasha Lord) Saturn is the lagna lord, also lord of the tenth from the pada lagna and located in the tenth house from the Moon. Its important role in the Navamsha has already been indicated. In the Dashamsha, Saturn as the eleventh lord, assodated with the ninth lord Mars, located in the fifth house, has a potential to boost the effects of Jupiter in causing a professional rise. In the Navamsha, Mercury as the lagna lord is located in the seventh house of public acclaim. It occupies the tenth house in the Dashamsha, exchanging houses with tenth lord as well As the Lagna lord Jupiter, an excellent combination of the lords of the houses of happiness and karma. When these two lords are the MD and AD lords why would this period not be called a lucl<y period? Role of AmK (Saturn) Saturn aspects the MD lord Jupiter, which is a very desirable factor. Its own AD had to prove useful. In the Navamsha, it gets involved in a major Raja Yoga with Jupiter, and aspects Mercury, the other important AD lord, in the seventh house. In the Dashamsha, as the eleventh lord in the fifth in association with the ninth lord, it only proves its beneficence. Saturn further ensures its continued benevolence since its Mahadasha will follow that of Jupiter. Transits On 2 April 1991, the time around which the individual got a major jump in his career. Jupite; the MD lord, is exalted in the seventh house, an alternative house of profession. It aspects the natal Venus, the tenth lord, and also the tenth house from the natal Moon, and the tenth lord from the Pada lagna, thus fully activating the natal tenth house by its aspect from the second house. In the Dashamsha, it aspects the lagna from the fifth house. Mercury, the AD lord aspects the tenth house from its location, in the fourth house. In the Navamsha chart, it occupies the eleventh 93

---

#### Extract 6 - Page 50

Astrology of Professions Self Emp'^yment or Service year 1991, when Mars Mahadasha started, he changed his business and started the business of manufacturing and export of readymade garments. 10th Lord Mercury is placed with 9th Lord Venus in 12th house and is aspected by Mahadashanath Mars which is the 3rd and 8th Lord aspected by Saturn which is the 5th and 6^ Lord. Venus has given the activity of designing garments. Mars has given manufacturing activity, Saturn has given the employment in his factory (more than 400 labour are working in his factory). The placement of 10th Lord and Lagna lord Mercury in 12m house has given export business. Now see the application of the principles:- • Number of planets from 7th to 12m is 4; and from 10th to 3rd are 6. Business. Is indicated. (Principle 1) • Lagna and Lagna Lord are having the influence of three Purna Parmatamamsa planets. Sun and Rahu are in Lagna. And Lagna Lord Mercury is being aspected by Mars. All these indicate self employment. (Principle 2) • Saturn in this horoscope is "Gocharastha." It is influencing Mercury the 10L both from Lagna and the Moon by aspecting him. In Navamsha Saturn is the 10L and in Dashamsha Saturn aspects the 10H. A "Gocharastha" Saturn in 3rd house ensures self employment. • Saturn in 5th and 6,h lord and is placed in 3rd house aspected by 8th lord Mars. Which makes Lagna and Lagna lord comparatively stronger than 4th H and 6th Lord that too indicates independence in profession. (Principle 4) • 2^ Lord and 9th lord Venus is placed in 12th house with lagna lord Mercury and is aspected by 5th lord Saturn .There is a strong relationship between 1,2,5,9th house. In Navamsha, 5th lord Sun is placed in 11th house with 11th lord and aspecting 5th house. 9th lord Jupiter is in own house and also aspecting 5th house. • Raj yoga - 9th Lord Venus and t0,h Lord Mercury are placed in 12th house and these 2 planets are also placed in 7th house together in Navamsha. • Vlpreet Raj Yoga - Vipreet Raj yoga is created as 6th lord Saturn is placed in 3rd house aspects 8^ Lord Mars in 9th house. The person amassed wealth during the Mahadasha of Mars involved in this Vipreet Raj yoga. Mars is the 8th lord in Navamsha and is posited in the 12th house. The Individual had a turnover of Rs. 40 lac approximately till 1991. During the Mahadasha of Mars (. 28- 3-91 to 28-3-98) his business grew upwards and had reached a turnover of 12 crores. 53

---

### Astrology_ destiny and the wheel of time_ban

**11 key sections**

#### Extract 1 - Page 68

CHAPTER XUT INTERPRETING VIMSHOTTARI DASHA for the sake of ccnvenltnce principles given In both baghu and Madhaya Parasbarf for Irrtwpietlng the Vlmshottari mahadasha {mxi[or period) and antardasha (sub-periods) Art being given here. The principles given for the Interpterndon of the antardasha can ba extended to the pratyanrar dasha (sub-sub-pcrtod) as well. First Principle Benefic or malefic, planets do not give their benefic or maicflc results In their own antardasha. They give- their results lr> the ontardasha* of planets associated wtlh them or similar to them he, malefic In malefic or benefic fn benefic Second Principle In the antardashas of planers not associated wlrh the mahadasha lord, or In the antardashas of the enemy of the mahadasha lord, the astrologer should exercise his |udgcment carefully. Third Principle tn the mutual periods of lord of kendrn and Lrilcona who are associated, good results flow. if they are not associated, the results can be Inauspldous, Fourth Principle If the dosha of a yogakaraka fa running then: (a) Even In the antardasha of j maraka planet, the promised rfllriyogcfc which had got started already, does not get extinguished. It can Increase Its beneficial results gradually, B5

---

#### Extract 2 - Page 69

INTERPRETING VjMSHOTTARI DASMA Asfrclog/ Dwllny flraJ tfv) Wheot^I Tijt« (b) In the antardasha of a'benefic assolcated with the yogj-karo^ happiness can be expected. Fifth Principle If Rahu and Ketu ate- tn trikona {partlculary In the fifth or ninth houses) they give the bencflda! 'results of a yogakaraka <JA5hn, MIXED RESULTS Sixth PWncfpftf (a) Iftfie mahadasha period is of a malefic the results of even a benefic antardasha can be trovblcsotne; if they are not associated mutually. (b) If they arc associated, they give mixed results. (q) The antardasha of a yogakaraka In the mahadasha of a malefic Is exceedingly bad, (Natei this Is teh enigmatic exception) Seventh Principle In the mahadasha of a maraka, a benefic antardasha does not become a killer. In the antardasha of malcRcs not associated with the maraka- lord df the time has come according to calculation) it gives surest death. E/ght/i PriVicfpte Saturn and Venus In their mutual! periods ( In Venus mahadasha and Saturn antardasha and vice versa) have good or bad results ■according to their over-all position but In a way which Is entirely different. Saturn-Saturn Will be like Saturn-Venus. Venus-Venus will be like Venus-Saturn. Ninth Principlo (a) If the Lagna lord Is In the tenth house and the tenth lord In Lagna or; (b) Ifboth the Lagna lord and the tenth lord are in the tenth-house or: (C) Ifboth Lagna lard and the tenth lords are In the Lagna, it Is not merely a combination for tajayoga but also promise of great fame. This happens fn good periods, it Is a life-long promise. fir.

---

#### Extract 3 - Page 41

CHAPTER V THE EMERGING PRINCIPLES OF INTERPRETATION Let It be stated at the outset that the Vlmshottari dosha is misused mostly and rarely used properly. The best way of removing this ddkency Is to use simultaneously another dosha, as a support, as a supplementary aid, or, as a confirmatory check for the prediction odng given. All old and experienced astrologers use various dosha to narrow down the area of confusion like the Yoglnl dasha, the Ashtottari dasha, some of the specific cfosihas given in Brlhat Parashara Hora Shastra, which the translators or commentators have merely reproduced without themselves knowing how to use them. They have nelghther learned these different dashas nor have they done their own researches to remove this deficiency. The problem then is how to use the Vlmshortarl dosha with less confusion, it should be done by noting down ihe principles that emerge out of It, for which the dasha of each planet must be used In full three-fold manner; the mahadasha (major period); antnrdasha (sub-period): and the praiyantar dosha (sub-sub period}. Maharshl Parashara prescribes the use of five-Fold division by including sookshma dasha (5ul>sub-sub period) and also prana dasha (sub-sub- sub-sub-perlod). A result-yielding and effective method still Is to use - (a) The mahadasha (major period) (b) The antardasha (sub period)* (c) The pratyantar dastia (sub-sub period) and (d) Transits of planets duimg the duration of the pratyantar dasha (sub-sub periods). Yet to use the Vlmshottari dasha In this manner some vital .pdndpi.es must be kept In mind.

---

#### Extract 4 - Page 153

Astrology; Desfifny and the Wheel of Time ASTROLOGY AND KARMA mahadasha system, Tor Instance see Chart 1 ► In 1990 this tady was passing through the dasha of Moon- Venus, It can easily be seen ; (a) From the Lagna the .7th lord. Jupiter In the 6th house aspccted by Mars. {b) Hie 7th house has Saturn, again aspected by Mars. (c) From the Moon the 7th lord Venus has gone incothe 6th house while the 6th lord Mars has gone into the 7th house. (d) In the mahadasha of rhe Moon which Iswith the 7th lord In the 6th house from the Lagna and In the antardasha of Venus which Is the 7th lord from Moon in the 6th house, there had to be strong difference of opinion with her husband. Finally she had to divorce her husband* Astrologers can easily see that certain planetary pattern In every horoscope represents unavoidable proofs or pre-destinatlon. Similarly, a person born with a horoscope (Chart 2), In the mahadasha of Mercury, antardasha of Sun and pratyantar dasha of Mais* there was a Wgtheft In his house, as a result of which |ewelleiy nearly worth of Rs. 40,000 of his wife was stolen. Such an Incident Is explainable only through the application of astrological prindples. This person has been suffering from losses and thefts of property repeatedly. Mara Rah 0 Chart?: C. Sun Mct SvniMor A, / The Physical, Astral and Causal Bodies What then Is salvation? For the purposes of our understanding let us rememer that there three bodies: the physical body (sthula sharfra), the subtle astral body and the Aa/vma shartra. The transmigration of soul Is directly related to the astral body. So long as the astral body, which Is called the flfigdehte not destroyed, the 171

---

#### Extract 5 - Page 31

MEANING Of HOUSES AND PLANETAHV. Astrology, DutfipyflrvJ ImjWJwt of Time Conclusion lr ts out of these fundamentals that aJJ predictions emerge out of the planetary patterns In a horoscope. From here we must enter the complex pattern which have to be many In a bare horoscope only, These complex patterns acquire different complexllles in different divisional horoscopes. Bask Points of Predictions In making a prediction an astrologer must Keep the following points In his mind. 1. Examine each house and Ibe lord of each house in the birth horoscope. 2. Then examine each house and Its lord In the Navaroshii (the ninth division of a horoscope). 3. Now analyse |ointfy both the birth horoscope and the Navamsha. 4. Make A^similar use of other divisional horoscopes, first separately then |olntly with the birth horoscope, 5. Now examine in detail the mahadasha (ma|or period) and antardasha (Sub-periods) of each planet In the Vfmshottari dosha in $tx Ways; (a) In the birth horoscope from the Lagna flrsc. (b) In the birth horoscope from the lord ofthedasha running, (c) En the Navamsbaagain go through the exercise given In (a) and (b). (d) Do ft again In the divisional horoscope concerned other than the Navamshiu (e) The significance of each planet and each house must be kept In the mind, (f) The 2-l2.df8 position of planets must be examined, Ifls now that the transit of planets Is to be used, not beforehhe steps given above have been gope through. The Transit atet&bt seenftomr (a) The lagna or the ascendant first. (b) Next form the Moon (as Moon stays in a house for nearly two and a quarter days. It is doubtful tf examining translLs from the Moon alone is the correct approach). (C) Now examine with relation to the Vimshottarl dasha how the mahadasha lords and antardasha lords ate placed Iti transit from the Lagna when a question Is being examined, 4B

---

#### Extract 6 - Page 88

CHAPTER 1 METHODS OF TIMING EVENTS II A question Is put to a successful ASlrotugcr "htsvv do you dme kin cvent?r his answer wilt be based on his own experience and iliccess. So many techniques are available In Hindu astrology (hub one never knows "whldr will suit whom and when, ftvJrtrtoftce <0} A very saintly police officer in a top position combines birth horoscope with Prashna (horary) and times the event with remarkable accurarcy. (b) A friend of mine uses Bhrfgu's methods of progression and achieves good results. (c) Some people In northern India use VStrshaphtr/a (anniitil horoscope) brilliantly for timing events. (d) Some research-minded astrologers combine two dashas, say Vlmshottari and/u/m/n/ to pinpoint the timing of an event. (e) Ashtakavarga is some-people's favourite method of riming. (0 Some people use modified Yimshattiui dasha. (g) Some people do western progressions and combine it wilh Vlmshottari Dasha. My Method ( have many methods, having tried and experimented with many and found all of them giving results. But as 1 do not find enough time* I have standardised & method which fa as follows: (a} Pratyantar dasha (sub-sub period) - The mahadasha or the main period-lord sets the overall general trenth the antardasha (sub-pcrlod} lords set the specific trend; rhe pratyantar dasha lord .(sub-sub period lord) translates the -specific trend Into an event, f need not explain it here thearetlcally,. t will Illustrate It. Mrs, Gandhi V children were born In the Rahu-Saturn and ioj

---

#### Extract 7 - Page 82

CHECKLIST -1 ASTROLOGICAL ANALYSIS Hxamlfwtlon of each house of the Birth horoscope. Z. Examination of each lord of rhe Birth horoscope, 3. Examination of each house of Navamsha horoscope, 4. Examination of each lord of Navamsha horoscope. 5. Combined examination of both - the Birth horoscope and Navamsha horoscope through a joint and total look at the first four points. 6. Examination of the Vlmshottari dashasequence from birth to the present day. matkirig out what could be notable periods for achievements or failure, happiness or unhapplncss. 7. The present mahadasha and antardasha running and Its promises. 8. Is any antardasha or pratyantardasba appearing to be significant or sinister? 9. Arc planers Whose dasha periods are running. Involved In yogas to be taken note of, Tajayoga, dhana yoga, arishta yoga? 10. What are the strength and weaknesses of the planets whose dasha Is current? Write Down Your QbsctV&tiafiSr 1 2, 4 5 Special Observations ,■ 2 99

---

#### Extract 8 - Page 46

Aslrefefly, Oc:iiny Brtd tJ>aVVHi:di fjfTmm f^AUEFtO PERIODS FOR EACH LAQNA The Third Principle If the houses of longevity, the third and ihe cfghrh houses become weak or are spoiled what is the result? They too must acquire death-deaffn^ propensities. The fourth Prindpte Calculation of the span of fife Is a very difficult area In astrology except in tftosc cases when ft fs most obvious. So rflvidc these periods into three calegvrtesz (a)When by all accounts Ir Is inevitable, the svo»st wtH 'iwpiien, (b) When by some accounts It appears to be had It niAy not cause death but produce suffering which mwy be death-like conditions-, (c) When by very few arcoupts 11 appears to be a period of suffering, rhtfc may be Illness or accident. In malting predictions these parameters will have to be applied, assessed and evaluated, The fifth Principle There comes the principle of FAC {postted. aspected and conjunct) \ft the calculation of the periods of suffering. Death can take place in the periods of; (a) The mahACfftsha and antardasha of maraltcis (second and seventh lords). Use the word maraka ftOW. (b) The periods of planete In maraka houses. (c) The periods of planets associated with maraka. planets. (d) If there are no planets in maraka houses and if no planets are associated with maraka planets then death can take place in the mahadasha of tile twelfth and die antardasha of the maraka planet, The Sixth Principle z Potency to kill In descending order Tabulate planets which have the strength to kill In the following order, starting from the strongest to the weakest. (a) The second lord Is the strongest kllfc'r. (b) Nott comes the seventh lord, (c) Next comes planer or planets In the second house, which acquire posttionaiiy such power. Next comes the planet or planets associated with the second lord, Next planets In the seventh house. 63

---

#### Extract 9 - Page 72

Astrology, Dostiny and On VVlmJl 04 llrn^ I4ESULV Of A>JlAftDA5rtA unchanged. (b) Do so again In ih^ oise of Drel<kana Dvvadashamsba and r Trimshamsha, Now see how planets are placed In (hn Lagna Cancer, the fifth house {ScoriJlfl^ fotitlh hou&e-(Ubra) nhd Hie ninth house (Pisces), Now the llhOd Important paints should be noted; (a) fn the c«uw: ol Lagna lord, it should be In the Lasna most of the time fofgood results to happen In the antardasha Lagna told* {b) I'lmieti livthe fourth and fifth houses denote good nntftfdashas, (c) Planets in the ninth house arc veiy good periods, Ultt clearest hfnt given here is thai predictions about ♦mbudAshas-should be given after seeing the position or planets tn different divisional horoscopes. The Key factor The major and most important analysis Is to be based on the sapta-varga analysis of these planets i Birth horoscope. Hora, Drekkana, NavAmsha SaptaenshA, Dwadashamshn, and Trimshamsha. P NoW the analysis should be done of each planet on the basis of their position in houses of exaltation, moolirlkoEXtV own house, friend's house, neutral house, enemy house and the house of debilitation. The results ofanrardashas will be based on this twofol&nalysis of a horoscope. Experience shows that a dasha is rarely extraordinary, mostly mixed and rarely fully bad. On Accurate Horoscope All experienced astrologer use the Birth horoscope, Na'vamsha and Shashtyamsba (one-slxtleth division} which are the three most Important horoscope,The points of sucngtb allotted by Parashara to different divisional horoscopes are i Birth horoscope paints Navamsha , .,,,.3 points Shnshlyamsho , .....4 pcjinis Total i r... ... 10,,2points t Hora i i-.-■,• ♦—n-in—i 1 points Drekkana _ h H poinls Tilmshamstia 1 points Shodashamsha...., ,..,2 poinls it1?

---

#### Extract 10 - Page 73

RESULT OF ANTARDASHA AsiicJosv.Dosiin/ areithe Total 1G»fl >polnt$ fn tho rvmeatnlngnine divisional horoscope polnlt aanti Grand Total 20 points The reason for pointing It out Is that at least the Birth horoscope .and Navamsha must be examined before giving any predictions/ In ■the InterprctatiDn. of dasha periods these should be seen Invariably. TROUBLESOME ANTARDASHA Principles being given here arc time-tested criteria for predicting about the periods of sickness etc. These are fatal periods which can cause accidents or deaths. Principle One The natardashas- of the sixth, eighth and twelfth lords are troublesome. Caution - Note their affliction and then predict. Principle Two In the anfardashas of the Lagna or Ui sixth lord associated with maraka planets, there is sickness. Principle Three Now comes the real use of the shad-vargas (Birth, Hora, Drekkana, Navamsha. Dwadashainsha and Trimshamsha). The condition (s, If the lagna end the sixth lords are conjunct and If the lagna lord falls mostly In unfavourably shad-vargas (let us say mote than three times) the likely nature of diseases (doctor- astrologers should use it) are z Lagna Lord in the shzd-varga of - Sun. roga {can be heart problem) Moon jafa roga,.., {pleurisy pneumonia eld) Mars rvdhlm toga , ffclaling V? blood) m Mercury Vayuroga (windy complaints) Jupiter kspbaroga .(diabetes, kidney elc.) Venus sfreo-garKram . Janya dosha (sexual diseases) Saturn.... , santilpoatwga (paralysis etc). Note : Here ftahu and Kclu arc not' used. It would be better to Use them also. But when the Lagna and sixth lords are conjoined, only then this becomes applicable. V(l

---

#### Extract 11 - Page 43

THE_ EMERGSNG" PWWC IPCES OF^ tatofogfc Oestirry m VOkkI Time expected tn their periods which will gei\2raily be a small but a good period, The Fifth Prirrclple: Modification Four The mahadasha rnay be evil-producing but Iftbeantardasha and pratyantar dasha are yoga producing, good results can stilt be expected inspire of a bad mahadasha. The sixth Principle t ModHicatiora Five Some planers can be, being both kehdrAand tiikona lords for a Lagna, ra]ayoga producing as for example (a) For Taurus, the planet Saturn as ninth lord Is a benefle but as tenth lord neutral. (b) For Cancer; The planet Mais Is the owner of both the fifth house (Scorpio), a trikona, therefore a benefic; and of Aries (the tenth house), a keudra, therefcrcr neutral, (c) For Leo, the planet Mars Is the lord of a kendm (Scorpio) and trikona (Aries), tfierefbre, itls yoga-producing. (d) For Libra, the planet Saturn is the lord of the fourth house IS neutral, while, as the lord of the fifth Is excellent ft Is for this reason that for UbTans, the period of Saturn has been described as the best period, (e) For Capricorn, the planet Venus is excellent as the fifth lord and neutral as the tenth lord. (f) For Aquarius the planet Venus is neutral as the fourth lord but excellent as the ninth lord. Summary Only for six Uignas there are planets owning .houses which make them the best. The remaining six Lagnas have no such benflh The planets for these Lagnas are: Lagna Owner of Kendra and trikorra Taurus ■——— Sriiurn Cancer , ^Mara Leo, r XVwTt,. * Libra SatlifTl Capricorn ,, VenUS Aquarius -r, Venus If these planets, MatS, Saturn and Venus for these Langas, Taurus, Cancer, Leo, Llbrit- Capricorn and Aquarius get connected with the lord of another trikona, Lhey become, excellent. This Is m

---

### advanced study of vimshottari dasha_KK Pathak

**15 key sections**

#### Extract 1 - Page 27

22 Advanced Study of Virnshottari Dasha lord or sub-lord. It is a different matter that a strong planet in its Dasha or Bhukti may give good results whereas a weak planet it its Dasha or Bhukti may give bad results. Under Parashari Dasha System two more points are notable: (a) 1st sub-period of a Maha Dasha which is the sub-period of major lord itself in its Maha Dasha is said to be defunct as far as its functional lordship is concerned. It is said that the major lord in its own sub-period wil give the. results only related to its Karakatwa or significance and it will give the results of its House lordship in sub-period of planet associated with it, that is, in sub period of Saha-Karmi planet or in sub-period of Saha-Dharmi planet in Maha Dasha of concerned planet. Saha Karmi is associating planet. Saha-Dharmi means planets of similar nature. For example a natural benefic may give its results in Bhukti of other natural benefic. A Kendra-lord may give results in Bhukti of another Kendra-lord. A trine-lord may give its result in Bhukti of another trine-lord. A Trika lord may give its result in Bhukti of another Trika lord. A retrograde planet may give its result in Bhukti of another retrograde planet. A combust planet may give its result in Bhukti of another combust planet. An exalted planet may give its results in Bhukti of another exalted planet. A debilitated planet may give its results in Bhukti of another debilitated planet. (b) The last sub-period of any Maha Dash a known as Dasha Chhidra is held to be either inauspicious or quite weak in giving good results. Dasha-Chhidras of malefics such as Ravi Antar in Chandra Dasha, Kuja Antar in Rahu Dasha, Rahu Antar in Guru Dasha, Sani Antar in Budha Dasha and Ketu Antar in Shukra Dasha are more harmful. Now, Satyacharya says that a Dashanatha will not yield results in its own Bhukti in harmony with or appropriate to its nature but it will yield results which are in consonance with or which are a continuation of the results of the previous Bhukti. If, however, Dasha Natha yields its own appropriate results in its own Bhukti, such Dasha Natha will not yield its own appropriate results in the other Bhuktis of its Dasha through the other sub lords. This may happen only when major lord is very powerful while the other sub-lords are powerless.

---

#### Extract 2 - Page 28

Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 23 As far as we understand, Satyacharya wanted to convey the following points : (i) If major lord is very powerful and its other sub-lords eigh1 in number are either powerless or very weak major lord in its sub period which is the first sub-period of major period will give it~ own results and in remaining eight sub-periods major lord maJ, not give its own results. Satyacharya perhaps erred in understanding the basic Dasha-rule that major lord ruled ove1 and influenced the course of events during Maha Dasha in a dominating way and that various sub-periods of a Maha Dasha were only parts or constitutents of a Maha Dasha. Therefore, major lord has always the remote control in its hands to rule over all its sub-periods. We, however, share views with Satyacharya that Major lord when very powerful, must be showing its Bhava-Phala and Karaka Phala in somewhat more prominent way but it will be wrong to say that major lord will have no say in other eight sub-periods to follow in suit. (ii) As a rule, in remaining cases barring the case of a very powerful major lord discussed in (i) Dasha Natha or Major lord in its own Bhukti may give the results of previous Bhukti which is nothing but last Bhukti or Dasha-Chhidra of preceding Maha Dasha. We agree that effects of Dasha-Chhidra oj preceding Moho Dasha cannot be wiped out overnight on commencement of new Maha Dash a. Effects of Dasha Chhidra may be carried forward to sub-period of major lord in its own Dasha. But on advent of new Maha Dasha and its constant progress new changes in line with new major lord will start taking place. At least the beginning portion of the first sub-period may have the reflections of an out going Dasha and an incoming Dasha. (iii) If major lord is a benefic and sub-lord is a malefic, major lord may go neutral, according to Satyacharya. As far as we understand, sub-lord may give some unfavourable results but major lord may not allow a free hand to the sub-lord. (iv) A malefic major lord or a malefic sub-lord with Papakartari Yoga may give most inauspicious results in its Dasha or Bhukti but a malefic major lord or a malefic sub-lord with

---

#### Extract 3 - Page 26

Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 21 Satyacharya, like followers of Ududaypradeep shares the view that Dashanatha or major lord in its own Bhukti or sub-periods does not give its own results. Satyacharya says that it gives results according to the results of the previous Bhukti, modified by its own nature. The results of the previous Bhukti do continue however. But if Dashanatha or major lord yields its results in its own Bhukti, such major lord may not give its results during the sub-periods of other planets. This, however, will happen only if the major lord is very strong and other planets comparatively weak If Major lord be a Benefic and Bhukti-lord be a Malefic, Bhukti-lord in its Bhukti may not give evil results. It may be passive. Satyacharya further held that a Major lord under Shubha Kartari Yoga, that is, when sandwitched between benefics, must give good results during its Dasha whereas major lord sandwitched between malefics, that is, under Papa Kartari Yoga will give bad results during its Dasha. We understand, sub-lords too under Shubha Kartari and Papa Kartari Yogas may give good and bad results respectively in tbeir Bhuktis. If major lord is both a Maraka Graha or Keller Planet and a benefic by nature, the sub-period of the 8th lord from Lagna may cause death of the native. If, however, the lord of the 8th house itself be a Maraka, under the circumstances death will not take place in that period. Satyacharya carved out a new path altogether in respect of the order of Bhuktis in a Dasha. He relied on the order of the planetary strength of planets arranged in their descending order of Shad-Bala strength. Let us assume that planets in descending order of Shad-Bala strength are as follows : (1) Mars; (2) Saturn; (3) Sun; (4) Jupiter; (5) Venus; (6) Moon; (7) Mercury; (8) Ketu; (9) Rahu. We may have to fix sub-periods in the aforesaid order in any Maha Dasha. This system, however, is never followed in Vimshottari Dasha. It could have been made applicable to Naisargika Dasha which has since gone obsolete in use. Second important point to be noted \is that under the Parashari Vimshottari Dasha System periods of Maha Dasha and Antar Dasha and their order of priority are all fixed ones and the same cannot be changed whatsoever may be the strength of major

---

#### Extract 4 - Page 215

210 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha does not give good results in general. Students of astrology must have noted the following Dasa-Chhidras : (i) Subperiod of Venus in the major period of the Sun. (ii) Subperiod of the Sun in the major period of the Moon. (iii) Subperiod of the Moon in the major period of Mars. (iv) Subperiod of Mars in the major period of Rahu. (v) Subperiod of Rahu in Major period of Jupiter. (vi) Subperiod of Jupiter in major period of Saturn. (vii) Subperiod of Saturn in major period of Mercury. (viii) Subperiod of Mercury in major period of Ketu. (ix) Subperiod of Ketu in major period of Venus .. Of the aforesaid nine Dasa Chhidras the 4th viz. subperiod of Mars in major period of Rahu is the only Dasa-Chhidra in which both major lord and sub-lord are extremely volatile. Under the cir cumstances our Sages rightly visualised that subperiod of Mars in major period of Rahu might prove to be ruinous unless there are powerful counteracting forces to undo them. It is the view of Laghu Parasari that Rahu and Ketu, when placed in evi13rd, 6th and 11th houses, will be giving inauspicious results in subperiod of Malefics. As in case of Rahu Maha Dasa, subperiod of Mars will also consti tute Dasa Chhidra. It follows, therefore, that sub-period of Mars in major period of Rahu may give benefic results if Rahu is placed in evil Trishadaya (3rd, 6th and 11th) houses but this is in violations of general rule that malefics in Upachaya houses (3, 6, 10, 11) give auspicious results in their Dasas. According to Brihat Parasar Hora Sastra, subperiod of Mars in major period of Rahu is not necessarily an evil period. Rather, it may help the native to regain his or her lost power and position or regain of one's lost wealth or release of one's blocked money. If Mars is posited in Kendra, Trikona or 11th from the ascendant and major lord Rahu also or when sub lord Mars is combined with some benefic or it is in its own or exalted sign, Mars in the 3rd from Rahu is also held to be auspicious. It is only when sub lord Mars is posited in the 8th, 6th or 12th from major lord Rahu and when such Mars is combined with malefics (or even aspected) by malefics that subperiod of Mars may cause danger, losses and harms.

---

#### Extract 5 - Page 5

vi CONTENTS 1. Introduction 1 2. Basic Dasha Rules of SatyachaJYa 9 3. Effects of Dasha of the Lord of the Ascendant in Various Houses 14 4. Effects Dasha of the Lord of the 2nd House in Various Houses 25 5. Effects of Dasha of the Lord of the 3rd house in Various Houses 31 6. Effects of Dash a of the Lord of the 4th House 40 7. Effects of Dasha of the Lord of the 5th house in Various Houses 50 8. Effects of Dasha of the 6th Lord in Various Houses 60 9. Effects of Dasha of the 7th Lord in Various Houses 69 10. Effects of the Dasha of the Lord of the 8th House in Various Houses 77 11. Effects of Dasha of the 9th lord in Various Houses 85 12. Effects of the Dasha of the Lord of the lOth House in Various Houses 94 13. Effects of Dasha of the 11th Lord in Various Houses 103 14. Effects of Dasha of the 12th Lord in Various Houses 110 15. Some more points 117 16. Remedial Guidelines 119 17. Yoga Karaka Dash a 125 18. Yogaheena Dasha Bhukti 165 19. Yogaheena Dasha-Chhidra 209 · 20. Yogaheena Bhukti of Atmakarak 224 21. Timing Results of Gajakesari Yoga 238 •••

---

#### Extract 6 - Page 15

10 Advanced Study of Vunshottari Dasha (4) Dasha results of Planets : Sub-periods of Planets posited in trine (1st, 5th and 9th) from major lords ruling over 2nd, 4th, 6th and 8th stars may give quite auspicious results in such major periods. Sub-periods of planets posited in trine from major lord ruling over evil 3rd, 5th and 7th stars on the other hand may give worst results in such evil major periods. Sub periods of planets posited in Kendra (4th, 7th & lOth) from major lord ruling over auspicious (2nd, 4th, 6th and 8th) stars or evil (3rd, 5th and 7th) stars may give moderately good results in all such major periods. We, however, do understand that planets in Kendra of major lords ruling over auspicious stars may give moderately good results in their sub-periods but sub-periods of planets in Kendra of major lords ruling over evil stars may give moderately bad results in such major periods. Sub-periods of planets in cadent (6th, 8th and 12th) houses from major lords ruling over auspicious stars may give bad results in such major periods. On the other hand sub-periods of planets in cadent houses from major lords ruling over evil stars may give good results in such major periods.-Planets in Leena houses (2nd, 3rd and 11th houses) from major lords ruling over any star may give weak results of a good kind in their sub-periods. According to Satyacharya, if a planet happens to be benefic by possessing three or four of the aforesaid auspicious factors, it may give good results during its Dasha and Bhukti. If such a planet is malefic in respect of three or four factors listed above, it may cause bad results during its Dasha and Bhukti. While the first three factors have to be considered for Dasha purposes, all the aforesaid four factors must be considered for Bhukti results. Results of Dashas and Bhuktls Satyacharya highlights some more points, which are as follows: (1) A planet placed in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th and 9th stars counted from Janma Nakshatra may give good results in its Dasha and Bhuktis. These auspicious results may be further enhanced (a) if such planet rules over some auspicious house. (b) if such a planet is placed in a trinal house, and (c) if it is conjoined with a natural or a functional benefic.

---

#### Extract 7 - Page 12

Advanced Study of Vunshottari Dasha 7 no planet in 1st or 9th from Rahu in the instant case. Periods and sub-periods of Saturn (lord of 8th star) may also go as auspicious ones. So also may go periods and sub-periods of Mars posited in 9th from Saturn in the instant case as there is no planet in the 1st or 5th from Saturn. (b) Planets placed in Kendra (1st, 4th, 7th and lOth) from lords ruling over the 2nd, 4th, 6th and 8th stars may give moderately good results in their periods and sub-periods. In the instant case Saturn in 7th from Venus, Rahu in 7th from Moon, Jupiter and Moon in 7th from Rahu and Venus -Mercury in 7th from Saturn may give moderately good results in their periods and sub-periods. (c) Planets placed in cadent houses (6th, 8th and 12th) from lords ruling over the 2nd, 4th, 6th and 8th stars may, however, give bad results in their periods and sub-periods. In instant case Rahu in 8th and Sun in 12th from Venus, Saturn in 6th and Venus Mercury in 12th from Moon, Venus-Mercury in 6th, Mars in 8th and Saturn in 12th from Rahu a,nd the Sun in 6th and Moon Jupiter-Ketu in 8th from Saturn may give bad results in their periods and sub-periods. (d) Planets placed in trine (1st, 5th and 9th) from the lords ruling over the 3rd, 5th and 7th stars may give worst results in their periods. In the instant case Sun (lord of 3rd star) may give bad results in its period and sub-periods. Rahu in 9th from the Sun, however, may give worst results in its period and sub-periods. Mars (lord of 5th star) may give bad results in its period and sub periods. Saturn in 5th from Mars, however, may give worst results in its period. Jupiter (lord of 7th star) may give bad results in its period. Moon and Ketu in 1st from Jupiter, however, may give worst results in their periods. (e) Planets in Kendra (4th, 7th and lOth) from lords of evil 3rd, 5th and 7th stars may give moderately good results in their periods. In the instant case Mars in 4th from Sun (lord of 3rd star), Sun in lOth from Mars (lord of 5th star) and Rahu in 7th from Jupiter (lord of 7th star) may give moderately good results in their periods. (f) Planets in cadent houses from lords of evil 3rd, 5th and 7Lh stars may give rather good results in their periods. In instant

---

#### Extract 8 - Page 17

12 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha unafflicted Mercury and Waxing Moon (b) which is placed in a benefic sign (c) which is in extreme exaltation, (d) which is in retrogression (e) which rules over auspicious houses (f) which rules over auspicious stars (g) which is in Shubha Varga and (h) which is Uchaharohi may give auspicious results in its Dasa. A planet (a) which is a natural malefic such as Saturn, Mars, Rahu, Ketu, Sun, Weak Moon and afflicted Mercury, (b) which is placed in inimical and debilitated sign (c) which is combust (d) which is too fast in motion (e) which rules over evil 6th, 8th and 12th houses (f) which rules over evil3rd, 5th and 7th stars (g) as malefic occupies trine and Kendra house and (h) which is in extreme debilitation may give inauspicious results in its Dasa. Satyacharya further says that lords of stars, rashis an'd navamsas in which aforesaid kinds of benefics are posited may also give good results during their Dashas whereas lords of stars, rashis and navamsas in which aforesaid 8 kinds of malefics are posited. may give bad results during their Dashas. What Satyacharya intends to say here is that dispositors of benefics will also give auspicious results in their Dashas whereas dispositors of malefics will give inauspicious results in their Dashas. Let us clarify the implication of this rule. A Yogakarak is the most beneficial planet in a horoscope. Dasa of a Yogakarak planet must be a beneficial one. Dasa of dispositor of Yogakarak planet too may be equally beneficial one. Dasa of the lord of star in which Yogakarak planet is posited may also be equally beneficial. Dasha of the lord of navamsa occupied by Yogakarak planet may also be similarly beneficial. 6th lord is an evil planet. As such Dasha of 6th lord may give evil results. Dash a of dispositor of the 6th lord may give equally bad results. Dasha of navamsa lord of the 6th lord and Dasha of lord of star occupied by the 6th lord may also give equally bad results. Dashas of the Lords of Houses Parashar, Mantreshwar, Vaidyamith, Vyankatesh and others have discussed effects of Dashas of planets giving importance to their natural attributes. They have made cryptic references of functional role of these planets in delineation of their Dashas. Utmost they have ~aid that a Bhava lord or a House-lord in its

---

#### Extract 9 - Page 88

Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 83 In the 12th house : If the lord of the 8th house be placed in the 12th house along with the 12th lord, Dasha of the 8th lord may give auspicious results such as wealth, power and position. It confers both Raja Yoga and Dhana Yoga. It is known as Vipareet Raja Yoga. The same can happen also when the lord of the 8th house is placed in the 6th house. If, however, benefic planets are combined with the lord of the 8th house they may all lose their benefic nature and bad results may occur. · Satyacharya adhered to the following views : (i) Lone 8th lord in the 6th house may cause worries, fear and troubles from the enemies in Dasha of the 8th lord. {ii) Lone 8th lord in the 12th house may cause much expenditure in Dasha of the 8th lord. (iii) Lone 8th lord in the 8th house in its Dasha may cause sorrows, poverty, fear and uneasiness of mind. (iv) If the 8th lord be combined with Benefics, its Dasha may yield good results. (v) If the lord of the 8th house is a natural benefic, it will give mixed results in its Dasha. {vi) If the lord of the 8th house is in its own Navamsa it may similarly give mixed results in its Dasha. (vii) If dispositor of the 8th lord be posited in a Kendra or a Trikona house and is also associated with benefics, it may give good results in Dasha of the 8th lord but it may damage the prospect and significance of the house occupied by such dispositor. {viii) The Dasha and Bhukti of the 8th lord in combination with a benefic will certainly give good results. {ix) But even a benefic well-placed in the horoscope may give bad results in its Dasha and Bhukti if it is combined with the 8th lord. (x) Dasha or Bhukti of a malefic planet in combination with the 8th lord on the other hand may give good results. (xi) Even a benefic planet that is in some Kendra or Trikona ~ouse in combination with the 8th lord and a malefic planet there

---

#### Extract 10 - Page 11

6 Advanced Study of Vimshottari. Dasha bad results. Venus and Mercury in 8th from Sagittarius and Mars in 6th from Aries may give bad results in their periods. 4th star Rohini, Hasta and Sravana will fall in Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn signs. As such, Mars and Saturn falling in Virgo and Capricorn signs respectively will give quite auspicious results in their periods. Moon-Jupiter-Ketu in 4th from Taurus and Rahu in lOth from Taurus may give moderately good results in their periods. Sun in lOth from Virgo may give moderately good results in their periods. Venus and Mercury in 7th from Capricorn may also give moderately good results in their periods. But Moon Ketu-Jupiter in 12th of Virgo and 8th of Capricorn may give bad results in their periods. The Sun in 6th of Capricorn may similarly give bad results in their periods. Similarly, positions from 6th star Aridra-Swati Satabhisa and from 8th star Pushya-Anuradha-Uttarabhadrapada may be assessed. But as 3rd star (Krittika-Uttara Phalguni-Uttara Ashadha), 5th star (Mrigasira-Chitra-Dhanistha) and 7th star (Punarvasu-Visakhapurva-Bhadrapada) will be falling in two signs it may not be possible to apply these rules in case of stars owning two signs. We therefore, deem it proper to reinterpret these rules as follows: (a) The planets placed in trines from lords ruling over the 2nd, 4th, 6th and 8th stars counted from Janina Nakshatra will be giving most auspicious results in their periods and sub-periods. In the instant case not only period and sub-periods of Venus (lord of 2nd star) will give auspicious results but planets in trine (1st, 5th and 9th) from Venus as Mercury in conjunction with Venus here will give similarly auspicious results in its periods. Periods and sub-periods of Moon (lord of 4th star) will similarly give auspicious results and periods and sub-periods of Jupiter and Ketu in conjunction with Moon will also go as auspicious ones. It may please be noted that there are no planets in 5th and 9th from Venus or Moon here. Had there been any such planet in 5th or 9th from Venus or Moon its period too would have gone as auspicious one. Periods and sub-periods of Rahu (lord of 6th star) will also go as auspicious ones. Periods and sub-periods of Sun in 5th from Rahu may also give auspicious results. There is

---

#### Extract 11 - Page 96

Advanced Study of Vimshotlari Dasha 91 In the 8th house : If the lord of the 9th house be posited in the 8th house along with the lord of the 8th house, Dasha of the 9th lord may give evU results such as misfortune, death of father, poverty etc. If these planets be in some moveable sign, the native may be wandering in foreign or distant place without any gains. If the lord of the.9th house be weak, the native may suffer from poverty and lead a very miserable life. 9th lord in debilitation or in inimical sign or in combustion may give much sorrows and misery in its Dasha. Combination with benefics or even aspects of benefics may alleviate the troubles a good deal. It will not be out of place to mention here that Dasha of the 8th lord in the 8th house conjoined with the 9th lord will give quite fortunate results like Dasha of a well-placed 9th lord while Dasha of the 9th lord will give sorrows and miseries like Dasha of the 8th lord. In case of Gemini Lagna 8th cum 9th lord Saturn in the 8th house, however,_ may be somewhat less troublesome in its Das})a though for this lagna too Saturn is more welcome in the 9th house than in the 8th. In the 9th house : If the lord be placed in the 9th house along with benefics or if it be aspected by some benefic planet, Dasha of the 9th lord may give happy and fortunate results both to the native and his father. The native or his father may perform charitable deeds. Effects of Dasha may vary according to the nature of planets joining or aspecting the 9th lord. Malefic influences on the 9th lord may cause either financial stringency or financial set-back in Dasha of the 9th lord. The native may be unsteady in his mind and may also lose his father in some cases. lf the 9th lord be weak in strength or if it is combust or if it occupies an evil house in Navamsa Chart the native may house a little wealth and quite a weak fortune. If Ketu or Rahu joins the 9th lord In the 9th house, Dasha of Ketu or Rahu will give fortunate results but Dasha of the 9th lord will give lnQusplclous results. In the lOth house : If the lord of the 9th house be posited In the 1Oth house along with the 10th lord and benejlcs, the native

---

#### Extract 12 - Page 128

Advanced Study of Vnnshottari Dasha 123 for natives born in Aries, Scorpio, Cancer, Leo, Pisces and Sagittarius Lagnas and it is only in case of Gemini and Virgo Lagnas that Saturn will be giving mixed results in its Dasha according to texts. We hold Saturn to be giving mixed results in case of eight other Lagnas as Saturn owns one auspicious and one inauspicious house in each case. Saturn never owns two inauspicious houses for any Lagna unlike Mars for Virgo Lagna or Mercury for Aries, and Cancer Lagnas or Jupiter for Libra and Capricorn Lagnas or Venus for Leo and Cancer Lagnas. W~. therefore, would suggest that natives born in other eight Lagnas may wear only a ring of steel or iron in middle finger in Dasha of Saturn which may be accompanied by worship of Hanuman, Rudra and Maha Kaali. Oil, Til, Blanket, black articles or iron goods may be donated to poor people. Recital of Sundar Khand of Ramacharita Manas and Hanuman Chalisa may allay fears of all kinds in adverse Dashas of Saturn, Rahu and Mars. As regards Rahu and Ketu it is well settled that they give results as per their dispositors in the first instance. If they are conjoined with some planet they may also give the results likely to be conferre9 by the planets joining them. Sometimes they may al5o give the results of planets aspecting Rahu or Ketu. It is for this reason that a blanket use of Gomeda in Rahu Maha Dasa and a blanket use of Cat's eye in Dasha of Ketu Maha Dasha is forbidden. Irrespective of any Lagna one may wear Gomeda in Dasha of Rahu only when Rahu lords over 1st, 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th or 9th star. If Rahu rules over the 3rd, 5th or 7th star one must n.ot wear Gomeda and instead one may resort to worship of Durga and Hanuman in Dasha of Rahu. One may similarly wear Cat's eye or Tiger's eye in Dasha of Ketu when Ketu rules over the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th or 9th star. If Ketu rules over the 3rd, 5th or 7th star, one must not wear Cot's eye or T19er's eye. Rather, one may resort to worship of Ganesh and Chamunda Durga or Maha Kaali in Dasha of Ketu. Whenever Rahu-Ketu be posited in 2nd/8th or $th/2nd axis they must be appeased by appropriate worship in their Dashas. So far we have discussed about remedical measures in context of Maha Dasha. By and large the same guidelines have

---

#### Extract 13 - Page 70

Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 65 6th lord with Ashubha Yoga in the 7th house may cause hurdles in way of livelihood, marital life and good health. A planet in the 7th house makes one earn wealth through personal efforts in its Dasha. When the 6th lord will join the 7th lord in the 7th house, Dasha of the 6th lord will be more wealth-giving than the Dasha of the 7th lord but at the same time Dasha of the 6th lord may be more hazardous for life and conjugal happiness than Dasha of the 7th lord could be. Whenever the lords of Trika houses join a Kendra or Trikona Lord, Dasha or Bhukti of Trika lord becomes auspicious and Dasha of Kendra or Trikona lord becomes inauspicious or ordinary. A devil in company of a saint becomes saintly but a saint in company of devils may lose much of his saintliness. In the 8th house : If the lord of the 6th house be posited in the 8th house combined with or aspected by benefic planets, the 6th lord in Bhuktis of these benefics may give auspicious results. If the lord of the 6th house be combined with the lord of the ascendant in Rashi or Navamsa Chart in Lagna, 8th or 6th house the native may suffer from some serious and terrible diseases and also suffer from poverty and troubles from enemies during Bhukti of Lagnesh in Dasha of the 6th lord. If the lord of the 6th house occupies malefic Amsas there may be serious diseases and troubles from the enemies in Dash a of the 6th lord. If the 6th lord occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th house in Navamsa Chart but if the lord of Lagna occupies some benefic Navamsa, diseases will be cured and troubles from the enemies will be obviated. A planet combined with the 6th lord in the 8th house may cause serious diseases and sometimes even death to the native during its Bhukti in Dasha of the 6th lord. Satyacharya adhered to the view that the 6th lord in the 8th house must give troubles in its Dasha. If it is combined with or aspected by malefics the native may have endless troubles. If it is combined with or aspected by benefics, quick relieff rom troubles, could be possible. In the 9th house : If the lord of the 6th house be placed in the 9th house combined with the malefics and also if the Sun, the Karaka of the 9th house,

---

#### Extract 14 - Page 71

66 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha be afflicted, father of the native, if alive, may be troubled by diseases and enemies in Dasha of the 6th lord. The native himself may have troubles from enemies and diseases. Native's enemies may grow in number and strength. His patrimony may deteriorate and his ancestral customs and honours may decline during the Dasha and Bhukti of the 6th lord. If the 6th lord be combined with Karaka Sun in the 9th house native's father may pass away. If the 6th lord be combined with the 9th lord in the 9th house the native and his father may not have good relations. In our opinion 6th lord in the 9th house if combined with the 9th lord may give fortunate results in Dasha of the 6th lord but it may give bad results in Dasha of the 9th lord. Normally, 6th lord in the 9th house may cause hurdles in rise of fortune. In the lOth house : If the lord of the 6th house be posited in the lOth house, the native may have to face interruptions in his assigned duties and perform unpleasant deeds. His avocation may be of a despicable nature. He may incur displeasure of the government and superiors. He may run into ignominy. These results may occur in Dasha or Bhukti of the 6th lord, according to Satyacharya. As far as we understand, lone 6th lord in the lOth house or 6th lord with Ashubha Yoga in the lOth house may give bad results in Dasha or Bhukti of the 6th lord whereas 6th lord in conjunction with the lOth lord or some other benefic may give auspicious results with respect to the lOth house prospects in Dasha of the 6th lord but Dasha of the lOth lord or some benefic joining the lOth house and the 6th lord may give bad results. According to Satyacharya, a natural benefic as the 6th lord in the 1Oth house may not give so bad results or it may even give good results in its Dasha whereas a natural malefic as the 6th lord in the 1Oth house may give bad results in its Dasha. In the 11th house : If the lord of the 6th house be posited in the 11th house along with the lord of the 11th house, the lord of the 6th house may prove detrimental to the means of gains and affluence during its

---

#### Extract 15 - Page 72

Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 67 Dasha and Bhukti. If the 6th lord be in association with a Benefic, the native may have sometimes gains through his maternal uncle and he may sometimes have misunderstandings with his elder brother. If the 6th lord occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th position from the 11th lord in Navamsa Chart contrary results are possible. If the ascendant lord be stronger than the 6th lord, the native may have victory over enemies. As far as we understand Mars as the 6th lord in the 11th house may cause injury in hands or legs or it may cause wounds in these parts. It may cause loss of issues. It may cause operation of heart or stomach in some cases. Saturn as the 6th lord in the 11th house may cause physical trouble and may delay issues. The Sun as the 6th lord may give results akin to Mars. Mercury or Moon as the 6th lord may cause mental aberrations. Jupiter as the 6th lord may give abdominal problems. Venus as the 6th lord may give urinal troubles. In the 12th house : If the lord of the 6th house be posited in the 12th house along with the 12th lord, the native's enemies may be ruined and wiped out in Dasha of the 6th lord but during the commencement of the Dasha of the 6th lord the the native may commit some misdeeds too. The 6th lord can give illness or some evil results during the sub-period of planet with which it is combined in the 12th house. If combined with benefics, Dasha of the 6th lord will be mostly auspicious. It follows therefrom that if the 6th lord be combined with malefics, Dasha of the 6th lord will give very bad results. If the 6th lord occupies 6th, 8th or 12th position from the 12th lord in Navamsa Chart, Dasha of the 6th lord may not be so good. If, however, the 6th lord occupies a Trikona in Navamsa Chart results may be good in Dasha of the 6th lord. Summing up the results of the Dasha of the lord of the 6th house Satyacharya asserted : (1) If the lord of the 6th house be posited in Kendra orTrikona house and if the ascendant lord be devoid of strength, the native may have fear of being hand-cuffed or other kinds of fear from the government in Dasha of the 6th lord and in sub-periods of

---

### aspects-the-speed-of-light-130436478x-9781304364784_compress

**4 key sections**

#### Extract 1 - Page 300

Aries, Pisces, Aquarius all the way to Gemini and repeat there after. How do you calculate Chara dasha? It's a simple step, you count how far the lord of each sign is from itself, count that many places and substrate it by one. But, I won't go any further than this; although it's always advised to calculate your tables and dasha manually, yet with the help of new software all the work is done for you. But be careful as some software will miscalculate your Chara Dasha. I will soon be implementing a full PDF horoscope service on my website Astrologykrs.com where you will get the most accurate calculation of any form of astrology including Chara dasha. Chara dasha answered many questions for me in the past five months. Why is that someone who goes through one of their best Vimshotri mahadasha suddenly losses their assets or fall sick or loses their job when they weren't supposed to. This is because chara dasha of a weak karaka in the sign activated itself in middle of your normal mahadasha. The good thing is sometimes Chara dasha only lasts for one year and sometimes twelve years, which is the max years allowed for any Chara dasha. A good Chara dasha should obviously last longer than bad dasha but that's not how Universe works. In conclusion there is lot more depth than meets the eye of Jamini aspects. Since I just started learning Jamini I have no authority to write anymore than what I have. I've only tested these aspects, karaka and Chara dasha system on celebrities, only, which does seem to work quite effectively. Until I test Jamini on a regular Joe I can't write or say anything about what works and what doesn't work. I have been learning Jamini for 4 months now and I still have lot to learn before I can even start practicing my skills on others. Once I have done enough research and testing, I will write a whole book on it including Jamini Raj yogas and Dhan yoga. 300

---

#### Extract 2 - Page 252

where they sit. If Moon is in the 2nd house that means Ketu is in the 7th house, and during their activated mahadasha the native would let go of attachment with relationships yet will suddenly find interest in other people who are on a moksha path while at the same time there would be sudden loss of savings or assets because Moon is sitting in one the most trouble nakshatra of Mula. But major loss will be felt in Ketu's mahadasha more so than Moon's mahadasha. In Moon's mahadasha the native may lose some savings by marriage, but only in period of Ketu's antar dasha. But since Marriage is the most important part of any person's life, Ketu's mahadasha would be worry some. Ketu would not only effect the 7th house but also activate the 2nd house where Moon is, which shows separation from family and mother, perhaps due to marriage or moving to foreign lands. If Jupiter was in the nakshatra of Pushya ruled by Saturn in the sign of Cancer and Saturn was in the Nakshatra ruled by Vishaka in the sign of Libra, they both are now in what is called sambandha or "Connection". If for example this took place in Cancer ascendant horoscope, that means Saturn is in the 1st house and Jupiter is in the 4th house. In each others maha and antar dasha they will activate themselves that will show one will be involved in the matter of property, land and mother related issues. Both Jupiter and Saturn are functional malefic for Cancer ascendant, hence will show sudden and chronic health problems related to gal bladder and liver. But such things can happen in each other maha and antar dasha regardless if they are in each others nakshatra, then why such yoga? This occurs because both planets are also acting like each other. Saturn will act like Jupiter and will try to show optimism and rise of self esteem even though he isn't supposed as a natural malefic, the native's self efforts and working on marriage will feel like a task filled with hope while Jupiter will show tremendous hard work needed in order to deal with the issues of family and 252

---

#### Extract 3 - Page 299

of education and personality depending upon their degree. Because planet become karaka of different situation by their degree. Planet with the highest degree is called Atmakaraka. Planet with second highest degree is called Amatyakaraka. Planet with third highest degree is called Bhatrikaraka. Planet with 4th highest degree is called Matrikaraka. Planet with 5th highest degree is called Putrakaraka. Planet with sixth highest degree is called Gnatikaraka. Planet with lowest degree is called Darakaraka. If you are eager to learn about Jamini. I have made 3 videos already on Youtube. You can search the video by typing, "Jamini Astrology" or "Chara dasha in Jamini", and my videos will show up. What is Chara Dasha? Chara dasha is a sign based dasha that always starts from the sign of your ascendant and may either move forward or backwards depending upon your ascendant. Either the dasha wil move forward in counter clockwise motion or clockwise motion in a chart. Signs like Aries, Leo Virgo, Libra, Aquarius and Pisces move counterclockwise. This means if you were an Aries ascendant your first Chara dasha started with the sign of Aries and move to Taurus in the second house, then Gemini in third house and would repeat after Pisces. If you were born with the ascendant Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Scorpio, Sagittarius and Capricorn then your Chara dasha will move backwards. If you were born with a Taurus Chara dasha then you will start with Taurus as your first dasha period followed by 299

---

#### Extract 4 - Page 292

planet, too, will aspect all the houses that the sign is looking towards. In such a method a planet will have multiple aspects combining Prashara and Jamini together. If Saturn has 3 aspects in Prashara then in Jamini it may have additional 3. This is why in one single mahadasha Saturn can put delay on many things but no matter what mahadasha you are running, there will always be some "Chara dasha" running simultaneously with Vimshotri dasha. If Mahadasha of Saturn is running while the chara dasha of the sign where Saturn is placed that's when Saturn will began to aspect all the other respective houses. In Jamini all fixed signs aspects all cardinal signs except the one next to them and all cardinal signs aspect all the fixed signs accept the one next to them. Then, all the mutable sign aspect each other. confused yet? let me make it easy. What are fixed, cardinal and mutable signs in astrology? This is one of the most basic concept of astrology like elements of planets (fire, water, earth, air). Fixed signs: Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, Aquarius Cardinal signs: Aries, Cancer, Libra, Capricorn Mutable signs: Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, Pisces Remember what I said. All fixed signs aspect all the cardinal signs except the one next to it. The sign of Taurus will aspect Cancer, Libra and Capricorn but not Aries. Why not Aries? because Aries is right next to Taurus in ascending order. Aries and Taurus are neighbors and since they are neighbors they do not aspect each other in Jamini. 292

---

### astrology krs_emagazine_edition 1_Kapiel Raaj

**7 key sections**

#### Extract 1 - Page 43

AstrologyKRS Rashi (D-1) General Rashi (D-1) General Ke Mo As 1 11 1 Pis 2 Ari 3 Tau 4 Gem 2 10 Ke As Jp Mo 12 12 Aqu 5 Can 3 ö 9 ö 6 Sa Ma Ra Me 11 Cap 6 Leo Jp Su 4 8 5 7 Me Ma Su Ve SaRa Ve 10 Sag 9 Sco 8 Libr 7 Virg The principles for seeing an individual’s first salary from the Jaimini perspective as given in this book are as follows: The AmK should influence the dasha/antardasha or be in the 10th or 11th from them. Among the karakas, the ones that give gains are the AK, AmK, PK, DK and 5th lord. Two or more of these should be aspecting the dasha/antardasha. At the time the person begins to receive the first salary, the AmK should by transit aspect the dasha/antardasha or be in the 10th or 11th from it. I noted that the young man was running the Chara dasha of Taurus-Cancer. His AK is Mercury in Scorpio. It falls in a kendra from the period rashi Taurus and trikona from the sub-period rashi Cancer. Since fixed signs aspect moveable signs, his Amk aspected Cancer. Note also that Cancer is the 5th house of children and education in the birth chart and contains an exalted Jupiter, natural karaka of religious organizations. Cancer is also aspected by the 5th lord Moon, it’s own ruler, such that the antardasha lord is aspected by both the Amk and the 5th lord, fulfilling the second principle as well. The Amk Mercury would be transiting Capricorn when he received his first paycheck, and Capricorn, a moveable rashi, aspects the dasha lord Taurus, a fixed sign. These principles supported the idea of a newly established income stream during the Cancer sub-period. 43

---

#### Extract 2 - Page 125

AstrologyKRS own money without anyone else's support. He must also become the face of his own corporation like Steve Jobs or Bill Gates who appeared on their own company commercials. Rahu here will earn money by making an impact of other people in society since Rahu aspects the 10th house. He will need to bring illusion to his work which means (media). Now we are going to look the impact on second house. Mars from the 11th house aspects the second house. This show his source of earnings will come from Martian sources as well. Knowing that both Saturn and Mars are aspecting the 2nd house he would do great with real estate and construction business which he admitted he's already doing (buying and selling flats). I also suggested going into gas station business (which he also later admitted) his father-in-law owns a gas station which he is interested in buying. But why sudden loss of interest from Saturn related work? for this I noticed his mahadasha. He started his Ketu mahadasha in 2011 May. If you know anything about Ketu, he is about letting go of all material goals and desires. Ketu is about meditation, yoga, spiritual practice, occult knowledge. This is one major factor in him losing interest in his career because in Jamini astrology Ketu aspects the 10th house (career). In 2018 he will start his Venus mahadasha of 20 years. Venus is exalted in 3rd house, this shows that in Venus time period he will pursue what Rahu wants him to do, which is to go into media and perhaps advertise his company with his own face to bring more connection with the audience and customers. Venus will suddenly invoke the artist in him because Venus is a yoga karaka for Capricorn ascendant ruling the 10th and 5th house, both houses play a major part in fame, cinema, entertainment and artist skills. Yogakaraka mahadasha always bring a huge transformation in a person's life. If you notice his Dasamsa chart, his 10th house is ruled by Pisces with lord Jupiter in 11th house conjuct Mars in Aries; with aspect from Rahu on the 10th house through prashara aspect and aspect on Mars and Jupiter through Jaimini aspect. This also indicated to me computer science and IT field, which he also admitted doing. But Jupiter here conjuct Mars shows one is very aggressive business man as Jupiter controls both 7th and 10th house for his D10 chart. Right now due to Ketu mahadasha his career may not make so much sense or any other aspect of his life, but once his Venus mahadasha starts everything will come into place like a puzzle automatically arranging itself. 125

---

#### Extract 3 - Page 37

AstrologyKRS At the beginning of this article I indicated that the AmK is a quick and elegant tool for predicting periods of distinction—especially when used in combination with the more familiar Vimshottari dasha and standard Parashara principles of raja yoga. The chart of Catherine Zeta-Jones is a perfect example. In 1997 she moved into her Chara dasha of Virgo, her 10th house, and the sign placement of her exalted AmK Mercury, configured in spectacular Jaimini raja yogas. Simultaneously in Vimshottari, she began her Mercury-Jupiter period, which also gives the fruit of spectacular Parashari raja yogas. When you see this kind of confluence, a prediction of “elevation” becomes a sure bet. This Virgo period has also brought her a husband and child, which is again very obvious. From Virgo, her darakaraka Moon (indicator of spouse) goes into the 7th house Pisces. Her putrakaraka Mars (who is also the 5th lord) aspects Virgo as well. These events are readily apparent in Vimshottari as well, since Mercury is also her 7th lord. Her relationship with Douglas began in Mercury-Jupiter, and she gave birth to their child in Mercury-Saturn, the later falling in the 5th house from her birth lagna. Predictions Using the AmK I have given seven examples now of individuals achieving great success and fame during Chara dasha periods of signs containing the AmK, or from where the Amk falls in the 10th house. I could have given 100. But this kind of retrospective analysis—while instructive—is ultimately meaningless unless the technique being demonstrated can also then be used to accurately predict. What follows then are five predictions where this technique was employed that subsequently proved correct. Election 2000 In March of 2000 I published an article on the internet giving my analysis of why I thought George Bush would win the upcoming election. The prediction came out correctly, although my favored candidate lost. The article emphasized that I found the election period itself “too close to call,” and predicted a Bush victory based on the subsequent inaugural period. Poor Al Gore, since November 2000 he has been left with the bitter reflection that few men have ever come closer to the White House and not occupied it. Political pundits had seen the election as “his to lose” and he did. However, his winning of the Democratic nomination, the popular vote in the election and his near victory did represent a peak in his political career, and the Amk along with the Chara dasha does have a story to tell this way. 37

---

#### Extract 4 - Page 130

AstrologyKRS In this chart I made a very simple yet important error. I predicted the career best to my ability and it was as predicted, but, when it came time for current mahadasha prediction I told her that Jupiter mahadasha is a very good for her in terms of career, while since 2005 she has been suffering form illness, set backs and career demotion. Why is it that an exalted Jupiter is giving such negative results? First, the most important thing I ignored was that her Jupiter was a "Functional Malefic" for her ascendant, meaning it's moolatrikona sign 'Sagittarius' is ruling the the dushtana house (12th house). The next thing I missed was I didn't see the degree of Jupiter which was 9:33:00, while the ascendant was at 11:56, just about 5 degree apart. The difference between the degree shows that Jupiter was actually effecting her in quite a negative way and bringing trips to hospitals (12th house), expenses (12th house) and made her put lot of effort into everything (3rd house) without much result. The next thing I didn't pay attention to was the chara dasha that was operating at that time. From 2007-2010 she was in her Leo chara dasha of 8th house, bringing tremendous amount of transformation due to the presence of Rahu and Saturn, especially Saturn in the first pada of Purva Phalguni nakshatra. But still not paying attention to the functional malefic part, and seeing that Jupiter was in the second pada of Pushya naksahtra gave her health problems. For the Cancer chara dasha GK (Gatinikaraka) Venus is 10th from the 7th house, which means major set backs in career in major and sub period time of Cancer/Aries. She has her ascendant lord Saturn in the 8th house with the cunning Rahu. This placement of Saturn bought major ups-&-downs all throughout her life which I did mentioned in the consultation, and she did admit to it. I did not want to go into details of such placements because I only wanted to stick to the main purpose of consultation, which was career. I also noticed that Jupiter was receiving an aspect from Ketu via Jamini aspect which also bought upon sudden unexpected changes to health because Ketu is a very unpredictable planet; Sometimes it gives the best of results and some times it take you places you would never wish to be in. If you notice the navamsa chart, Jupiter is sitting in the 6th house in the sign of Virgo showing major digestive problems, especially constipation. Ignoring such factors can have you miss the whole picture of the entire dasha. Such mistakes are always possible as astrologers are only human, but admitting and learning from mistakes is what separates a good astrologer from an average one. 10th HOUSE and CAREER Since we are on the subject of career we might as well clear some misconceptions regarding 10th house which is known as the house of "career". What is tenth house in astrology? Tenth house in astrology is the house of authoritative figures, government, your father and your reputation, but it is not the house of your career. You only see ups & downs in career with the tenth house because usually the reputation of the native suffers when they do not have a job or are demoted. Originally the tenth house is ruled by the sign of Capricorn; if you observe this house from the most basic premise of astronomy Capricorn is the sign of status, reputation and government. The sign is controlled by Saturn because it represents hard work, service to the King, ranking in King's kingdom. The tenth house is also known as the house of father. This is another misconception that must be cleared. Ninth house in astrology is not the house of father, it's your gurus, advisors and teachings of gurus but it also shows teachings of father since father is your very first authorities figure who instills value, morals and spiritual teachings within you. 130

---

#### Extract 5 - Page 32

AstrologyKRS Rashi (D-1) General Rashi (D-1) General RaJp Ma Ma Sa As Su Sa 4 2 10 Pis 11 Ari 12 Tau 1 Gem Me 5 1 Mo Jp Ve As Ra 3 9 Aqu 2 Can 6ö 12 ö 9 Ke Su Ve Robert De Niro Tue. 8/17/1943 3:00:00 Me Mo Brooklyn, NY 8 Cap 3 Leo 7 11 8 10 Ke 7 Sag 6 Sco 5 Libr 4 Virg He entered his Sagittarius dasha in August of 1971 and during this period he won an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor for his performance as a young Don Corleone in the Godfather, Part II (1974). This triumph was followed by a nomination for Best Actor for Taxi Driver (1976). In August of 1978 he moved into the Chara dasha of Scorpio from where the raja yoga-giving combination of the Amk (Mercury), AK (Venus), and DK (Sun) all fall in the 10th house. In addition, the Sun is the 10th lord in its own sign/house. He was again nominated for Best Actor for his role in the Deerhunter (1978) It was during this period also that he gave his most unforgettable performance as boxer Jack LaMotta in Raging Bull (1980), for which he won the Oscar for Best Actor. The award actually came in the subsequent period of Libra, from where the 11th house of honors, gains, and recognitions contains the AmK and becomes otherwise so strong. Parenthetically, this career peak occurred in Mercury-Venus in Vimshottari, the dasha and antardasha of the two planets forming raja yoga in the 3rd house of acting and with the 3rd lord. Starting in 1991, De Niro entered his Leo period, which lasts a full 12 years, and his career has continued to flourish in such films as Cape Fear (1991) and Casino (1995), to mention only a few. Since the Leo period continues until late 2003, my prediction would be that his star will continue to shine, especially as he just entered his Venus period in Vimshottari, which gives substantial raja-yoga both from the birth lagna and the Moon. 32

---

#### Extract 6 - Page 114

AstrologyKRS everyday moves and realize their big mission of mahadasha or chara dasha; that's where the magic happens. As a passionate lover and true believer of Vedic Astrology I would be the first one to say "Stop!". "You don't need to look at your chart everyday to be successful or make your dreams come true. It's the action you take outside your door that brings opportunity." Planets, even when debilitated, crunched by malefic or simply giving bad results in their mahadasha, are only their to tell you that it's time for you to get up and work and not wait for your Raj yoga to give you what you need. The psychological patter of all who use the council of Jyotish think that timing brings everything to them, they don't create anything. But it's you who creates your tomorrow, not the planets. Planets simply give you hurdles or joy in your path to your destiny, but if you don't walk to the destination you have picked in your mind, you are not getting any closer to reaching your dreams/goals. That's the free will you have. It's your choice to walk towards your destiny sitting behind the thin foggy pathway. If I didn't write my books 18 hours a day or make videos on Youtube with passion, I would still be in a small room trying to look for a minimum wage job. It was me who by working today created my tomorrow. It was me who got up and stood in front of the camera to talk about astrology; all planets were doing was either making the process hard or easy. At times my camera won't work, editing system would fail, I would feel down and depressed on some days while many times I was out of money in my bank account; but it was my free will to still get up finish the work no matter how long it took. It's you who can also change your destiny. Universe/God gives you free will and controlled environment to live in. God says choose any destiny you want at anytime. You want to change your destiny, you can, but the path your destiny will have controlled hurdles and joy, if you can make through such hurdles, the world is yours. For me personally, mahadasha, charadasha, transits, yogas, all they show is how easy your path will be to what you want to do. I never say you won't accomplish something in this dasha, no one has the right to say that. All I tell them is how hard or soft the surface is on which they are about to walk on. Signs of failure: The # 1 sign of a failure in a person I see all the time is when they send me an email asking "Will I have name, fame and wealth?", this one statement clearly shows that one doesn't have capacity to work hard, but are waiting for the easiest opportunity. This is something Ernst Wilhelm also disused in a interview with me on Youtube. If you were to tell Steve Jobs back in the early 1980 that you do not have the combination to become famous or wealthy. A man like Steve jobs would laugh at you, shrug your existence in his life and become the Steve Jobs he was destined to be. This not just about the will power or strength of Mars in a horoscope. This is the free will that us human have on this planet. God has given you a set of rules to follow in your journey towards death, again, he has created a stamina and endurance course for you. Some participates get a easier path while other are on a harder path or advance level. Those who have the hardest path are the one who are remembered for their achievements. Those who have a easier existence only get a few applauds. This is why all powerful people around the world have had the hardest life. Just look at the biography of Arnold Schwarzenegger, the man refused to listen to anyone who said he will not be a body builder. While in the army he escaped the camp at night, went into the completion and won. He came back to a solitary confinement for 5 days. There are lot more to his life and what made him who he is. A man like Arnold not only refused to listen to people, he would completely reject the notion of Vedic Astrology, dosha, curses or whatever negative aspects are there in his chart. Sure, this determination is the strength of his planets and mind but everyone and anyone can 114

---

#### Extract 7 - Page 59

AstrologyKRS indicating a direction is writing and literature. Venus also has its debility cancelled by association with its debilitation lord, Mercury. This is a good example chart of why we need to factor in the mahadasha lord as an important influence on our choice of academic studies. Example Chart #4: Deepak Chopra Here is the chart of Dr. Deepak Chopra who has been a pioneer in the field of alternative medicine as a prolific writer and speaker. Notice how the 1st lord Saturn is placed in the 6th house of illness and healing. When we read the chart from the Moon (Chandra lagna) Saturn becomes the 6th lord and aspects the ascendant. This shows a strong connection with the medical field. In addition, Mercury, which happens to also be the 5th lord, and the Sun are conjunct Mars, a technical scientific planet. He began his undergraduate studies in Mars-Venus dasha. Mars is with 5th lord, Mercury, and Jupiter, both karakas of education, indicating a dasha focusing on education. Venus represents biology and Mars and Venus form a parivartana yoga between the 9th and 10th lords. The mahadasha lord, Mars, is also with the Sun, karaka of the body and the medical field. To be a medical doctor is also to be in the role of advisor, consultant, and educator. Therefore, the 9th house, the house of teaching, and Jupiter, the guru and advisor, must also be strongly positioned in the chart of medical doctor. It was in the dasha sequence of Mars followed by Rahu, two technical scientific planets, that he became trained as a medical doctor. As in the chart of Stephen King, Jupiter aspects the ascendant, the 5th house, and the 5th lord, giving him an abundance of creative ideas. The 5th lord, Mercury in the 9th house with Jupiter, the Sun and the 10th lord, gives him the qualities of a teacher and educator. It has been since his 16 year Jupiter dasha, which began in 1983, that he has become known as a new age guru. This makes perfect sense since Jupiter is placed in the 9th house, the house of higher knowledge and wisdom, with his 5th lord. It was in this dasha, that teaching and writing became his passion. Utilizing the D24 Chart for Birth Time Rectification 59

---

### astrology-the-speed-of-light_compress

**5 key sections**

#### Extract 1 - Page 104

What is a Dasha? (Planetary time periods) Dasha - it simply means “A given time period”. It is also known as (Vimshottari dasha). In Vedic astrology, your life span is control by a single planet at certain points of your life. Even though your entire chart is affecting you, the majority of events will be happening of a planet that is controlling your life for that time period, and depending upon its placement in your chart, it will provide either good or bad time in your life. The Dasha system is determined by your Moon nakshatra. Below is the chart of time period of a single planet in dasha system. This applies to everyone, but no one runs the same time period. If you’re in Saturn time period, then your wife might be in Venus time period. To determine what time period you are operating currently, you must look at the 'Nakshatra' your Moon is placed in during your birth. But the software will automatically will calculate your mahadasha time period. Mahadasha = major planetary time period Antra dasha = sub planetary time period 104

---

#### Extract 2 - Page 110

The chart above shows that when dasha of such planets comes, it will show results of these houses: Sun dasha will activate effects of house 2, 9, 10 and 11, meaning 2 = wealth, 9 = luck & long distance journeys, 10 = career, 11 = gains from such career. This way you can say Sun dasha will be very good. But remember, Dasha also have 'antar dasha' and antar-antar dasha'. You might run in Sun –Moon -Venus dasha, while looking at the chart above you will see that Moon and Venus also signify houses, if those two planets showed houses 5, 8, 12 or 6, 8, 12 in them then the dasha will be mixed, but if the main dasha and sub dasha are all showing houses 5, 8, 12 or 6, 8, 12 then you can see it will not give good results. How to judge a dasha? This process will become an easy task but in the beginning it will look a bit complicated. When judging if your dasha will be good or bad you must take in account of several factors. The dasha lord itself is the primary factor. The maha dasha lord whose cycle you're running should be judge on these factors below.  exalted sign  own sign  friendly sign  enemy sign  debilitated 110

---

#### Extract 3 - Page 117

simply bring situation related to other houses through the eyes of the house where maha dasha planet is placed. Just because you go through the dasha of 7th house planet, doesn't mean you will only experience things related to 7th house only. If you go through Jupiter dasha of 16 years, while it's placed in the 7th house, that doesn't mean you will only deal with marriage, legal partnership and other people; you will deal with the situation related to Jupiter's placement, the houses it rules in your horoscope, but you may also inquire debt in this time, get into accidents, get a promotion, make a foreign travel trip etc.. this only happens because other sub lord periods (antar dasha) come into play, yet through the situation related to the 7th house. i.e. you might get into debts due to legal partnership, you might get into accident while traveling with your spouse, you might go to foreign lands due to your spouse or you may succeed in business due to partnerships and marriage. Depositor of mahadasha lord: Depositor simply means the ruler of the house. If Jupiter is sitting in Taurus, then the landlord of Jupiter will become Venus. When judging the time period of Jupiter, you should also look at the placement of Venus, because Venus is constructing the foundation of the house upon which Jupiter is standing. If Venus is weak than foundation of Jupiter is weak, and during the mahadasha period of Jupiter it will give weak results. Since dasha play such an important role in Vedic astrology, it shows you how the percentage of success shrinks in most horoscopes. This is why there is 70% poverty in the world, while only top 5% are truly wealthy. Their charts just came 117

---

#### Extract 4 - Page 111

 In conjunction with a functional malefic  In conjunction with an enemy  Aspects on the dasha lord  Is it in Kendra or Trikona  Dasha lord placement in divisional charts like D3, D9 and D10  What are the points of the planet in 'Dik bal' and 'Shad Bal'  Depositor of the mahadasha lord Exalted: Is your dasha lord exalted in a certain sign? like Jupiter in cancer or Saturn in Libra where a planet gains maximum strength. This will help the planet in giving the maximum amount of positive result during its dasha and antar dasha period. Own sign: Is the planet placed in its own sign: Saturn in Capricorn or Aquarius, Jupiter in Sagittarius or Pisces or Sun in Leo etc... This is perhaps is even a stronger placement per my studies as a planet feels most comfortable in its own sign, since it's its own house. Any person will feel comfortable in their own house rather than in a luxury hotel of a exalted sign. Friendly Sign: Is the planet placed in a friendly sign? like Jupiter in Leo, Aries or Scorpio, or Venus in Aquarius, Mercury in Libra. This position is not as strong as the two above but this still gives decent result in dasha period. Enemy sign: Now if a planet is placed in an enemy sign, it can give quite a bit of struggle and trouble during its dasha. If Sun is in Capricorn, Saturn in Leo or Cancer, Mercury in Aries or Sagittarius. Here, the planet is forced to live in the 111

---

#### Extract 5 - Page 113

suffer from depression since moon is the mind and Jupiter is the 6th house lord of diseases and their own guru and teacher can become an obstacle for them. However, Jupiter can give good result in its dasha or antar dasah if it's placed in its own sign in the 6th house, 8th or 12th house as functional malefic for cancer ascendant, which will create a Vipreet Raj Yoga, (reversal of fortune), this shows when a person who is suffering in life will suddenly win a lottery or suddenly gain a lot of wealth. If Jupiter is exalted for Cancer ascendant as a functional malefic, then it shows victory of enemies, strength to over come obstacles and repaying of debt on time, but even an exalted Jupiter can give health problems and other things. Conjunction with enemy: If two planets are not friendly to each other then during their dasha they can give mixed results due to their planetary war. If Saturn and Mars are in conjunction, then during each of their dasha they take the native to higher management status including fire fighter, engineer etc.. but, they can also get lot of cuts & bruises, car accidents and burns due to Mars being fire, Saturn being oil and mixing them together is not a very healthy choice, not to mention Saturn and Mars are not too friendly to each other. Aspects on dasha lord: You must also check if dasha lord or antar dasha lord is receiving an aspect from a friendly planet or an enemy planet. If the dasha lord is well placed, but it has an aspect from a debilitated or enemy planet then it can cause set backs again. If the dasha lord is reciving an aspect from a friendly plaent who is strong and well placed then it will add to the support for the planet during its dasha period. 113

---

### jyotish_astrology-and-timing-of-marriage_-k-n-rao_-english_hindi

**4 key sections**

#### Extract 1 - Page 103

Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (o Scientific Approoch) Chapter-s Conditional Dasha Dash System (Mandook dahsa); 1Q'h Lin 1Q'h H (Chatursheeti Dasha system, basically, means 'Timing of Sarna Dasha) and so on. the fate of human beings based on the position Using the conditional dasha is what our and condition of the planets at birth'. teacher says, sending of a patient for various Horoscopic chart, which gives the planetary tests before the final prognosis. Our faculty positions at the time of birth of a person displays members have worked on a few of these dasha a static picture whereas the dasha adds the systems as mentioned in znd chapter. We have dynamic aspect to it. The promise which is quoted from their books the techniques of indicated in a horoscope attains fruitions when applying these dashas. In this chapter we present an appropriate dasha operates. The dasha, thus, for you 2 examples of each of those dashas helps in timing the events. Dasha system is a namely. tool unique to the Hindu Astrology. Dasha is ~ Dwisaptati Sarna Dasha either Nakshatra based like Vimshottari, Yogini ~ Chatursheeti Sarna Dasha etc. or Rashi based like Chara and Sthira dasha of ~ Dwadshottari Dasha Jaimini Astrology. Then there are dasha which ~ Shashtihayaani Dasha are combinations like Kaal Chakra Dasha, where ~ Shodashottary Dasha. counting is done on the basis of nakshatra but the dashas proceed according to rashis. I. Dwisaptati Sarna Dasha Our Sir, Shri K.N. Rao, bestows the title of "King of Nakshatra dasha" to Vimshottari Dasha, Ex. I Charon Singh; (Ref. page 81 of book whereas Kaal Chakra Dasha is the "Emperor of Predicting through Dwisaptati Sarno Dosha) All Dashas" according to him, and even if the DOS-23-12-1902; TOB-07:23am.; POB- degree of Moon is wrong by a second in then Meerut (U.P.); DOM-25-6-1925 there is a possibility of huge errors. Marriage took place in the dasha of Sun/ It Is said that Maharishi Parashar has given Mercury. Sun is the ninth lord and is placed in 54 dasha and Jaimini Rishi 44 Birth Chart 23-12-02 07:23·oo N01111msha (spouse) Trans~ Marriog&-26 061926 I dashas. Some I I SuMe dashas have been Ka Ma Ke Su Va classified as MaRa Sa AsMo conditional dasha Ex. 1 Mo as they are applied 1--- Charan VeMe only when planets SaJu Singh Ju Ke are positioned in a SuAs I I chart in a some VeMa Ra MaMo I Ra AsJuR SaR unique style e.g. more then 4 P1 P2 I P3 I P4 P5 P6 I P7 I P8 I 01 I oz 03 planets in Kendra -.J -..! I X I -.J -.J -..! I -..! I -.J I L I -..! -.J 104 Guide Shri K.N. Rao •!• ~ ~ ~,113, WI

---

#### Extract 2 - Page 14

~ atrr fi.l<m" """ ( !{"' ~ ~) Parameter 6 - Jupiter activating natal been fixed after an elaborate research on Venus/Mars: According to this parameter horoscope of not only Hindus but natives from transiting Jupiter activates natal Venus in male all over the world. The data researched charts and natal Mars in female chart just before encompasses Muslims, Christian, Russians, the marriage. Americans etc. Parameter 7 -Sun and/or most planeJ:s In the above parameters we have made around Lagna or 7H: Our Sir pointed out the fact use ofVimshottari Dasha and Jaimini Char Dasha. that in almost all societies during marriage However, it is important to make note ofthe fact ceremony mantras are chanted and prayers are that if any special dasha is applicable to a chart read in order to invoke the Supreme Being and then it must be checked as well. Use of make him witness to this solemn ceremony and conditional dasha is essential to confirm the to seek His blessings. This is the reason that Sun readings of any general dasha. It is like taking a and most planets (who are nothing but specialist opinion of an expert to confirm or Dashavtara of Lord Vishnu) transit around Lagna modify the opinion of a general physician. A or the 7H on the day of marriage. very detailed research has been conducted and Parameter 8-LL transiting in/near 7H or books written on some of these dashas by our 7L transiting in/near Lagna just before marriage. esteemed faculty members. Some of these books are: Observations Dwisaptati Sarna Dasha 01 - Besides these parameters another by Shri Manoj Pathak observation which needs to be further researched Chatursheeti Sarna Dash a is about the role of Moon on the day of marriage. by Shri Naval Singh 'NR' means 'No role ofM oon' in the transit chart. Dwadashottari Dash a 02-Transiting Saturn aspecting Dar a Karak by Shri RS Panwar &. Dr. (Mrs) SR Mishra (DK): It has been observed whether just before Shodashottari Dasha marriage Saturn activates DK by aspecting it by Shri VP Goel (Jaimini aspect) or by being in 1-7 axis from it. Shasti Hayani Dasha 03 - An observation made by Shri Naval by Shri VP Goel Singh Sir relates to PAC relationship of MD and With their blessings and perm1ss1on we AD lords with 5-11 houses/lords of 09 chart. If quote a few paragraphs form their books, which one of MD/A D/PD lords connects to 5-1 1 axis of will help. It is recommended that wherever these D9 we have taken meeting this observation. conditional dashas are applicable, readers must The parameters given above fix/indicate apply them on the charts to arrive at the timing timing of marriage in a native's horoscope. Vedic of marriage. Hindu astrology, as proved again and again, is a • Dwisaptati Sarna Dasha (DSS) is a Super-Science, hence these parameters though conditional dasha applicable only to horoscopes laid down on the basis of Vedic Astrology are where lagna lord is placed in 7th house or 7th applicable universally. lord is placed in lagna or where lagna lord is in Even as we say this, one should never forget lagna and 7th lord is in 7th H. Shri Pathak has the 'Desh Kaal &. Paatra'. For example in the made following observations at page 134 &. 13 5 chart of an orthodox Hindu girl any dasha of his book regarding marriage and DSS dasha. indicative of child birth would also indicate time 'Thus marriage takes place in the dasha of of marriage, but the same may not be true of a planets connected with: woman hailing from Western Society. However, o second house/second lord in rashi and as pointed out above these parameters have navamsha. Guide Shri K.N. Rao •:• ~ !ft q;"l!;f" ~ 15

---

#### Extract 3 - Page 13

Chapter- 2 Parameters - Timing of Marriage "A successful marriage depends on two Navamsha (DKN), Dara Pada (DP), Up-Pada (UP) factors: finding the right partner and being the lagna or 7th lord of Dl or D9. As we know right person". All stories of why and how Jaimini's Char Dasha is a rashi based dasha and marriage takes place, raises question about when not a nakshatra based dasha. Hence here the AD the marriage shall take place, i.e., what are the rashi should establish a connection by being in Parameters for 'timing of marriage'. 1-7 axis with DK, DKN, DP, UPL or 7L or by Our Guru Shri KN Rao Sir has, after several giving them Jaimini Drishti. years ofobseNation and elaborate study, divided these parameters in two broad categories: Dasha Group B - Transit Based and Transit. Parameter 3 -Jupiter's aspects in transit After checking the promise of marriage in a on Vivah Saham: 'Vivah Saham' (VS) is a sensitive horoscope the appropriate dasha, i.e., the dasha point in the horoscope and is arrived at by adding which can give marriage must be arrived at. It is the longitudes of LL and 7L. The rashi thus arrived always advisable to check at least two dashas then becomes the Vivah Saham rashi. simultaneously to reduce margin of errors if not It is often said that 'someone somewhere is eliminate them. In our parameters we have made for you' and the day you come across that considered Vimshottari dasha and Jaimini's Char a person you immediately feel and know that you Dasha. The former happens to be Nakshatra have met 'that someone' you have been waiting based and the latter Rasi based thus making it a for. Does it not sound like what our Sir refers to comprehensive approach. as Jupiter activating Vivah Saham in transit? Let us discuss the parameters: Parameter 4 -Double Transit: The Saturn and Jupiter activating Lagna, 7H, LL, 7L or VS. Group A - Dasha Based The role of double transit was first revealed by Parameter 1 - Connection ofVimshottari our Sir Shri K.N. Rao in 1984. Here we refer to Mahadasha (MD), Antardasha (AD) lords with activation of these houses/lords through PAC by Lagna or 7H or Lagna Lord (LL) or 7L ofD1/D9 the Karmadhipati and Dharmadhipati of Kaal or planets associated with them. According to Purush, i.e., Saturn and jupiter. . this parameter the MD and AD lords ought to Parameter (Piya Milan) 5 - The have PAC (Position, Aspect, Conjunction) terminology of this parameter is evidence of our connection with Lagna, Lagna Lord (LL), 7th Teacher's advanced sense of humor and his house (7H), 7th Lord (7L) or the planets excellent technique of teaching in a manner associated with them in Rashi (D 1) and which makes it impossible for anyone to forget Navamsha(D9) chart. what he has taught. As per our Guruji Shri KN Rao, the D9 must In this parameter we are referring to LL and always be checked as it is the 'sooksham' kundali the 7L of native making a connection in transit of the native. just before marriage. According to our Sir, before Parameter 2- Char Antar Dasha making a the physical meeting on earth the planets meet connection with Darakarak (DK). Darakarak in the heaven and pave path for the meeting. 14 Guide Shri K.N. Rae •:• ~ ~ -.; ..' <"'" <T<!

---

#### Extract 4 - Page 15

Parameters Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) o seventh house/lord ofrashi and navamsha. those charts where Navamsha lagna is Taurus or o in some cases planets aspecting fifth house Libra as mentioned by Shri R.S. Panwar &.. but again getting connected to second Dr. (Mrs)S.R. Mlshra house. • Shodashottarl Dasha: This applies to o above situations in navamsha is essential. charts which satisfy following conditions: o planets getting connected through PAC o Ascendant Is in the hora of Moon and the with second house or second lord. birth is in the dark fortnight {Krishna Paksh) Out of these seventeen charts, in which o Ascendant is in the Hora of Sun and birth is event of marriage was seen, in all 17 cases, the in the bright half {Shukla Paksh). second house has played an important role in This is a nakshatra based dasha and as may solemnization of marriage. This was so clearly be seen from the above conditions it applies to evident in the birth charts and on navamsha 50% of the charts and must be used by serious charts. Add to this, a similar examination of the astrologers as it has maximum applicability navamsha chart and the picture is clear. As you among the conditional dashas according to our would have noticed, from the table above, it Is respected teacher Shri VP Goel. His book gives a these planet invariably which have given deep insight on its method of application and marriage. In two cases above, event of marriage timing of events once it is applied on the has not been discussed and in one case applying divisional charts. the above principles we have foreseen marriage • Shasti Haya ni Dash a: This conditional taking place soon. Thereby making it hundred dasha is applicable to horoscopes having Sun in percent in terms of percentage. Curiously this Lagna irrespective of the Sign rising and is also explains more than one marriage involving applicable to one chart in twelve and thus needs the second house." serious attention. Shri VP Goel has stated in his • Chatursheetl Sam a Dasha: This is book "It is established that the 2nd and 10 house applicable to all those charts in which 1Oth lord of divisional chart generated the event of the is placed in 1Oth house. Shri Naval Singh says in divisional chart in their dasha. his book at page {page 143 &.. 144) 'Thus Besides the above mentioned, there are marriage takes place in the dasha of planets other conditional dashas as well and many connected with research students at Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan are o Fourth house/fourth lord and seventh pursuing their research under the able guidance house/seventh lord in the birth chart {D-1 ). of our faculty members. One such dasha where o Lagna/lagna lord, seventh house/seventh our seniors are working, is Shatabdika Dasha lord, fifth house/fifth lord and eleventh which is applicable If native has Vargottam lagna. house/eleventh lord In navamsha chart {D- We await their findings. 9). This book' Astrology and liming of Marriage o The event of marriage was examined in all {a Scientific Approach)' is being presented after the cases as listed above, the role of planets extensive research on 200 horoscopes under the associated with fourth house/lord or guidance of our esteemed Guru Shri KN Rao. In seventh house/seventh lord in birth chart the following chapters we have presented has been found to be dominating in detailed study of 50 cases which includes high solemnization of marriage. Similarly the profile as well as common men and women planets connected with 1-7 and 5-11 axis from all over the world and all religious beliefs of navamsha chart have played an important {Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Sikh etc.). After this role in solemnization of marriage." we present 150 cases in the form of Charts and • Dwadashottari Dasha: This applies to tables for ready reference to our readers. 16 Guide Shri K.N. Rao •!• ~ ~ <f;oll;lo -uq

---

### kupdf.net_uttkalamrita-kalidas-ps-sastri

**1 key sections**

#### Extract 1 - Page 9

(xi) 8·9. Major period of Kuja 144 9·10. Major period ofBudha 145 10·11. Major period of Guru 145 11·12. Major period ofShukra 145 12-13. Major period of Shani 146 13-14. Major period of Rahu 146 14-US. Major period of Ketu 147 15·16. Rahu and Ketu as marakas and as benefics 148 16-17. Rahu and Ketu in the four dual signs 149 17-18. Rahu and Ketu in other signs 149 18-19. Rahu and Ketu in 6. 8. 12 and other matters 150 19·20. Rahu and Ketu with yoga karakas 151 20·21. Exaltation. debilitation. mulatrikona and own signs of Rahu and Ketu. Their friends and others 151 21·22. Rahu and Ketu in relation to the lord ofsigns they occupy 153 22·23. The results ofa subperiod in a major period 154 23·24. Which major and minor periods are benefic. average and bad 154 24·25. Malefic and benefic nature of the lord of the subperiod defined 155 25-26. Effects of the sub-periods in relation to the major period. Same dasa giving Rajayoga and also death 155 26·27. When does a Rajayoga planet postpone death? 156 27·29. Guru and Shukra in their mutual periods 156 29·31. Mutual periods of Shukra and Shani 157-159 31·32. Mutual periods ofRavi and Shani 160 32·33. Mutual periods of Kuja and Guru 160 33·34. Mutual periods of Budha and Guru. Budha and Shukra, Guru and the Moon. Shukra and the Moon. Guru and the Sun. Sun.and Kuja, Ravi and Budha 161

---

### mahadashas-the-speed-of-light_compress

**4 key sections**

#### Extract 1 - Page 196

Shri Lagna Kendradhri dasha Panchottari dasha Niryanna dasha Mandook Dasha Sthira Dasha Ashtottari Dasha Navamsa Dasha Shodashottari Dasha Drig Dasha The list goes on. I can confidently say I have not researched on 80% of these dasha systems. Perhaps in my future life I will be able to spend more time. Just the mastering of one Dasha to 99.9% accuracy can take an entire life time. I usually work with Chara Dasha, and Yogini Dasha. These two dasha systems require their own book due to the vast amount of information around them. 196

---

#### Extract 2 - Page 195

The Other Time Periods: In Vedic astrology there are actually more than 65 time cycles known as dashas. Currently the modern man only uses 26 dasha systems due to the lost manuscripts, or simply such knowledge is kept secret in many astrological and religious families. I believe what we know of Vedic Astrology today is only about 25% of what is out there. It's simply the watered down version of our genius sages. But even with the watered down version, the human mind is capable of unlocking many secrets of this science and can make extremely accurate predictions of the date of an event. This book is based on the “king" of time periods known as the Vimshottari Mahadasha. Is it really the king of time periods? I believe not. I believe it's just a pop culture saying that has been passed on for decades, like the use of gemstones in Vedic Astrology. A good astrologer should use at least 2-3 time cycle systems to verify the event. I will not be discussing these time cycles in detail here, but you should at least know that there are other layers of time working in this single dimension we call our lives. If the MD and AD shows an accident in a certain year, perhaps the other time cycle might also show a sudden gain of wealth in the same year. It could be that winning an insurance claim from the accident wasn't seen through the MD, but was seen through a different time cycle. As mentioned the #1 time cycle is Vimshottari Mahadasha, but below are some of the other time cycles I am familiar with: Chara dasha Kaal chakara dasha Yogini dasha Shoola dasha Lagna Kendradi dasha 195

---

#### Extract 3 - Page 28

What are Sub-periods? Sub-periods are mini periods of planets that come within the major time period of a planet. If you are going through a 6 year time period of the Sun then in that period other planets will come into play to do their part and bring other house situations alive. This is why in one single MD we experience everything but the main theme is always the MD. There are about 4 major sub-periods within an MD. • Antar Dasha • Prayantar Dasha • Sookshma Dasha • Prana Dasha What are Antar Dashas? We will refer to Antar Dashas as AD to make things easier. AD are the sub periods that come within a MD. This is why we as human beings do not just experience one situation give by one planet; sub periods bring us other situations within our major agenda given by the MD. i.e.- In a six year time period of the Sun MD you will have all the other planets come into play for about 4-5 months at a time. The time period of the Sun will start from Sun MD and Sun AD, followed by Sun MD / Moon AD Sun MD / Mars AD Sun MD / Rahu AD Sun MD / Jupiter AD Sun MD / Saturn AD Sun MD / Mercury AD Sun MD / Ketu AD Sun MD / Venus AD 28

---

#### Extract 4 - Page 29

In the six year time period of the Sun, all the planets come in and play their part. This will bring situations related to many other houses. The first MD, AD, PD, SD and PD will be of the planet itself, as in Sun/Sun/Sun/Sun/Sun period, followed by Sun (mahadasha), Sun (antar dasha), Sun (Paryantar dasha), Sun (Sookshma dasha), Moon (Prana dasha) period. The time of birth has to be extremely accurate for these last two periods to be studied, a few minute difference can throw your prediction off by weeks. i.e. #2 If you are a Leo ascendant with your Sun in the 3rd house at 21 degrees, this means the Sun is in the sign of Libra and Nakshatra of Vishaka. Let's still assume that Jupiter is in the 9th house in the sign of Aries. But Mars is in the 7th house in the sign of Aquarius. The person is running through a MD of the Sun and AD of Mars. Sun rules the 1st house and Mars rules the 4th and 9th house. What will this time period bring? In such periods, especially the 6 years of the Sun, he or she will be doing a lot of short distance traveling, as well as or including long distance travel since the Sun is in the nakshatra of Jupiter; who is in the 9th house of long distance travel. They might be dealing with authoritative figures, father related issues, issues with siblings, or experience a creative time period. But Mars’s time period comes into play for 4 months. Since Mars is in the 7th house the person will also have to deal with the issues of relationships, marriage or partnerships. Since Mars rules the 4th and 9th house, Mars will give results of the 4th and 9th houses while wearing the costume of Aquarius. This placement of Mars will show issues related to relationships will arise due to involvements of the mother and traveling. There will be power struggles felt in a relationship due to home, mother and gurus. Also, this period can show the mother traveling away from home in search for a person's partnership or due to property related 29

---

### pdfcoffee.com_243649065-jyotish-predicting-through-shodashottary-dashapdf-pdf-free

**5 key sections**

#### Extract 1 - Page 6

Predicting through Shodashottary Dasha he was passing through the Vimshottari dasha of Jupiter-Venus which does explain this terrible event but still some clarity will be needed to pin point it. But in Shodashottary dasha it was the Mahadasha of Mars the eighth lord of scandals and the antardasha of Moon in the eighth house of scandals. Shri V.P. Goel has done excellent research in this dasha and after his book on Yogini dasha which was path breaking, he is now presenting an equally brilliant research of his. I have written in a book of mine that once when an old · astrologer had come, some of us had met to discuss astrology with him. He said had that he had given up astrology almost and was devoting more time to his spiritual practices. We were discussing the horoscope of Raja Dinesh Singh to which Shodoshottary dasha was applicable. Out of irritation that classically trained astrologer asked us why we had not used Shodoshattary dasha in this case. I put. before him my calculated sheet showing how this dasha worked in this case. He was very happy and used some strong words against some of modern astrologers who neither knew astrology properly not knew the importance of the conditional dashas of · Parashara. It is again from the Institute of Astrology, Bharatiya Vidya Bhawan that brilliant and fundamental researches is coming out. Look at the impressive list already:- 1. Earlier there were the book of Manoj Pathak on Dwisaptati Sarna Dasha in which he has shown so many events and their precise timing through Dwisaptati Sarna Dasha. Making use of it Pathak predicted very correctly the performances of Virendra Sehwag, the Indian cricketer where this dasha applied. 2. Next came out Naval Singh's Chatursheeti Sarna Dasha in which he showed lot of original research and privately told us that the end of Harivansh~ai Bachchan, father of the actor, Amitabh Bachchan, was coming. It came out so correct on this basis. 3. Then came out V.P. Goel's Yogini Dasha which has been tested by students so well and so thoroughly. 4. In March 2004 we released Akhila Kumar's Sthira Dasha a dasha of Jaimini which has been tested on thousands of horoscopes by now. · Now V.P. Goel has again produced another book on Shodashottary Dasha. He has shown its applicability by taking up 8

---

#### Extract 2 - Page 11

Predicting through Shodashottary Dasha Dasha Scheme C. The Start The starting Nakshatra is PUSHY A, which gives Dasha of Sun. The placement of Moon in a Nakshatra at the time of birth is noted. Count from Pushya to the birth Nakshatra. Divide this number by 8. The remainder number decides the operating Dasha at birth. Pushya is taken as number 1. The remainder number gives Dasha lord as under; Remainder Dasha Lord 1 Sun 2 Mars 3 Jupiter 4 Saturn 5 Ketu 6 Moon 7 Mercury 8 Venus For example, Moon is in Ashlesha Nakshatra at birth. Counting from Pushya, Ashlesha is second Nakshatra,. Dividing by 8 leave a remainder of 2. The ruling Dasha at birth is of Mars. In another chart, Moon is in Shravan Nakshatra. Counting from Pushya, Shravan is 15th Nakshatra. Dividing by eight we get a remainder of 7, which gives the ruling Dasha of Mercury at birth. 0. The Balance The time duration allotted to each lord is for the Nakshatra span, . which are 13 degree 20 minutes. When Moon is at the beginning of · Nakshatra it gives full years of the lord of the Nakshatra. When Moon is in the ending of Nakshatra the balance is zero. In between the portion of the Nakshatra yet to be covered calculates the balance of Dasha period. The method is same as applied for calculation of balance of Vimshottari Dasha. Mark the ending point of the Nakshatra in which Moon is placed at birth. Deduct The longitude of Moon from the ending longitude of Nakshatra. Multiply this difference by the Dasha duration of its lord and divide by 13 degree 20 minutes. The result is balance of Shodashottary Dasha at birth. E.. The Sub Periods Each Dasha lord shares its Dasha period in proportion to the Dasha periods of other lords. The sum of periods of aU participating Dasha lords is 116 years. Thus the Maha Dasha period of each lord is divided in 116 parts and multiplied by the years of sub period lord. 13

---

#### Extract 3 - Page 5

wb~ use conoitional oasbas? In the year 1984, I showed in some articles uses of different conditional dashas of Parashara, which are nakshatra dashas, and their great significance and use. Maharshi Parashara has given some of them in his magnum opus. There are said to be as many as fifty four such dashas out of which only twelve are available to us. Out of them the primary, according to the importance given byParashara are Vimshottari, Kala Chakra Dasha, Jaimini's Chara Dasha and Shoddashottari dasha. Used with Vimshottari which is a general dasha and Chara dasha, also a general dasha, a conditional dasha throws light into an area of a horoscope where an astrologer's attention may not be drawn easily. Let this be illustrated through a horoscope, which is that of Bill Clinton, the former president of USA. In the year 1998 when Clinton was facing a crisis in his career with the Monica Lewinsky scandal threatening to ruin him totally, Moon Rahu Bill Clinton. Sat 19Aug 1946 Mer 07:56 Hope AR Sun USA Ketu Jup La~ Mars en 7

---

#### Extract 4 - Page 13

Predicting through Shodashottary Dasha Dasha Scheme Ketu period ends (15 years) . 04 - 01 - 1984 Moon period ends (16 years) 04 - 01 - 2000 Mercury period ends 04 - 01 - 2017 Sub periods in Mercury Dasha Mercury Dasha starts on 4th January 2000. The first sub period will be of Mercury. The sub periods in Mercury Dasha are as under; Sub period lord Starting from Duration Ending d m y d m y d m y Mercury 04 01 2000 27 05 02 01 07 2002 Venus 01 07 2002 20 07 02 21 02 2005 Sun 21 02 2005 10 07 01 01 10 2006 Mars 01 10 2006 03 09 01 04 07 2008 Jupiter 04 07 2008 26 10 01 30 05 2010 Saturn 30 05 2010 19 00 02 19 06 2012 Kelu 19 06 2012 11 02 02. 30 08 2014 Moon 30 08 2014 04 04 02 04 01 2017 Ready to use tables for balance of Dasha from longitude of Moon in all twelve signs are given in Table II (A to L). The sub periods in aU Dasha are also given in Table III. The abbrevation SSD will be used for Shodashottary dasha in all further discussions. 15

---

#### Extract 5 - Page 12

Dasha Scheme Predicting through Shodashottary Dash a The Dasha lord takes the first sub period and others follow in the sequence as laid down in the order of Dasha. This confirms to the rules followed in calculation of sub periods in Vimshottari Dasha. The final picture for calculation of Shodashottary Dasha is now given in tabular form in Table I. Table -I Nakshatra Nakshatra Nakshatra Nakshatra Dash a Year s 8 PUSHYA 16 Vishakha 24 Shatbhisha 5 Mrigshira Sun 11 9 Ashlesha 17 Anuradha 25 P.Bhadra 6 Ardra Mars 12 10 Magha 18 Jyestha 26 U.Bhadra 7Punarvasu Jupiter 13 11 P.Phalguni 19 Moola 27 Revati Saturn 14 12 U.Phalguni 20 P .Ashadha 1 Ashwini Ketu 15 13 Hasta 21 U .Ashadha 2 Bharani Moon 16 14 Chitra 22 Shravan 3 Kritika Mercury 17 15 Swati 23 Dhanishta 4 Rohini Venus 18 Full Example . Moon at birth have a longitude of 22 degree 30 minute in Pisces. Date of birth is 19 February 1961. Dasa lord at birth The Nakshatra occupied by Moon is Revati. Count up to Revati from Pushya. We get 20. Divide by 8. Remainder is 4. giving Saturn as the Dasha lord at birth. The Dasha of Saturn was running at the time of birth. Balance of Dasa at birth Revati Nakshatra ends at 30 degrees of Pisces. Subtracting the longitude of Moon (22 degree 30 minutes) from 30 degree we get 7 degree 30 minutes. Duration of Saturn is 14 years. Multiply 7 degree 30 minute by 14 and divide by 13 degree 20 minute. The result is 7 years 10 months 15 days. The balance of Saturn Dasha is 7 years 10 months and 15 days for the person born on 19th February 1961. The Dasha sequence will be as shown below; Date of birth 19 - 2 - 1961 Balance of Saturn period 15 - 10 - 7 Saturn period ends 04 - 01 - 1969 14

---

### pdfcoffee.com_bcpdocx-pdf-free

**1 key sections**

#### Extract 1 - Page 4

Observation : MD lord Mercury retro in pisces at MEP degree BCP year 37th / Rashi active Capricorn as per BCP method 2 The 37th yr belongs to 1st house - Leo in D1. Leo being 5th house, rules hobby, speculation as it’s 5th sign. Also Sun is strong in the house itself so that explains the mindset. D9 - Sun is 3rd lord placed in first. He confirmed that he is changing home soon and moving to another location in bangalore. Should I consider 1st house in D9 OR should I concentrate on Leo?? D10 - Sun is 11th lord placed in first house in debilitation. However, the first lord Venus is in the 12th house. However, this condition is since April 2018, why are the effects coming now?? Capricorn sign active - 10th sign placed in 6th house. Harassment at work? PERSONAL OBSERVATION - to be verified If a house gets active in a BCP year, the trinal houses may also be active at the same time because nakshatras are trinal in nature. Example Suman Pathikonda 15-05-1971 10-23 am bangalore Mother passed away 30th Dec 2017 BCP year 47th - 11th house (3 and 7 also active??) - Taurus consisting of Sun and Sat conjunction. Venus lord of 11th house is in 10th with Mercury BCP year tech no. 2 - 47th year means scorpio - 5th house, 8th house of natural zodiac 11th March 2019 Progression System from Chandrakala Nadi 1. This is not the routine planetary transit. It is a progression of planet 2. Ra/Ke and retro planets will move in retro motion. Planets that are stationary will not move and you cannot calculate the progression for them. 3. Planets will stay in each rashi same amount of time in as number of months as in the mahadasha. 4. For instance, in Vim dasha of moon, moon will stay 10 months in each sign as it’s mahadasha lasts for 10 years, Venus Mahadasha 20 months in each sign because it’s mahadasha lasts for 20 years.

---

### predicting-through-jaimini-chara-dasha

**15 key sections**

#### Extract 1 - Page 108

The Dasha of rhe Atmakaraka Predicting through Jaimini Chara Oasha arrested in earlier dasha of the Sun and even Venus. The dasha of AK was actually significant for his rise in life. His next dasha of Mars, his tenth lord was the best in his life. I must ap%giese for using a slightly defective horoscope In the first edition of this book of the Queen of England in which Jupiter was shown in Kumbha which Is whdt one computer programme gave me. Since many years I have not been doing manual casting. this mistake was detected by student, to whom I am grateful. Later, it was checked it throgh two other programmes and it was shown as the planet w ith the highest degree in Makara. But this difference does not alter the argument being made out here from the point of view of the Chara dasha. What is being examined is whether the dasha of the atmakaraka causes a fall. In Jatak Tattwa, Mahadeva did not clari fy whether he was using the Vimshottari dasha or the Chara dasha when he talked about fail in the dasha of the atmakaraka. Now here, if the Atmakaraka of the Q ueen is Jupiter. she has passed through many antardashas of Jupiter In Vimshottarl but has not suffered any fall. She has not got the dasha of Jupiter mahadasha. But his proposition of fall in the dasha of the Atmakaraka is to be tested through chara dasha only, it seems. Though It is clear that the dasha of a rashi containing the atmakaraka or the rashi dasha from w here the atmakaraka is in the 10th house has a Significant meaning, it need not mean a 'fall' R.h I~v"," . 9 " 10 M" SU" • Lo9 12 >< M" Sat(R) Mer Jup V," M~" Chart 1 1 7 Queen Elizabeth )< SU" April 21, 1926 , Log 1 :40 a.m. GMT M" London 4 2 Jup M~" ." R:~ 5 Sat(R) -" Degrees of Planets Jaiinini's Karakd I !Lagna 02"21' Jupiter 29"41' AK Jupiter PK Mercury ISun 0]023' Venus 21 "08' AmK Mars GK Sun IMoon 19"20' Saturn(R) 01 "37' 8K Venus OK Saturn IMars 28"02' Rahu 27"17' MK Moon IMercury 11 "50' Ketu 27"17' 108

---

#### Extract 2 - Page 71

Predicting through Jalmini's Chara Dasha Love Relationship and Marriage house of her horoscope, since 1988 and it will run up to 2000 AD. It is in this period that her marriage continues to be in trouble. The corresponding dasha in the Vimshottari is Jupiter (debilitated) ' and Mercury sub period which began in 1988. In 1995 the sub-period js of Mars' and later, of Rahu's. Acting as the twelfth lord, Mars has taken , her away from a husband. The twelfth house is also the house of separation. Prince Charles has been running Chara Dasha of Sagittarius since 1984, the dasha of his sixth house of disputes which will be over in 1996 . ' That is the period to be watched for the much awaited upward swing in the life of Pn"nce, but there is na hope of the man"tal tangle getting resolved. " The Future Events Visible in the Horoscopes Prince has now run Into a period of his life which will give him public prominence more and more. Now It Is as Prince. Later it will be as the king who will not the type of orthodox royal figure to which Englishmen are accustomed. Two years later, it will be with royal grace and dignity officially conferred on him. Chances of his succeeding his mothers in rather unusual circumstances strike the eye, If one sees the horoscope closely. For Princess Diana, the period of change and long foreign trips will continue. Rounddbout July 1996 or even before her mdrriilSe dispute Is likely to be settled. Newspapers and the BBC have talked about her huge demand of 64 million pounds. It is not within the realms of astrology to predict how much the amount will be. Lt is however dear that it will be substantial, with a palace or palatial building along it. But from her horoscope it appears that the education of her children will be a matter of dispute. There could be a change in the nature of their education or their educational institutions. In retrospect, it can be seen that in Vimshottari mahadasha of Jupiter in the second house and antardasha of Mercury the seventh lord she died. In subsequent chapters, particularly the dasha of Atmakaraka has been discussed. Diana was passing through the dasha of Gemini which contains her Atmakaraka Sun. The time Frame is thus narrowed down to the period 1995 to 1998. Two events have been predicted here. The divorce of the Prince of Wales and his of su(cerding his ch~nces mother. Queen Elizabeth in this period. 71

---

#### Extract 3 - Page 121

Pr.dicti!l9 through Jlliml!ll Chlllrll Oasha Be Careful m Sagitlarius Dasha L,. R,h MOO" S"" Sol v'" Chart 3 Navamsha M" • J"P J"P M" R,h Virgo ....... ...................... . 1973 to 1984 libra ... .... .... .... ........ ...... . 1984 to 1985 Scorpio .................... ...... . 1985 to 1986 Sa gl ' tt an. us .... ............. .... . . 1986 to 1989 Capricorn .......... .... .......... . 1989 to 2001 By not taking an extra year's debilitation for the Sun we get the first sub·period in Capricorn. which is Sagittarius 1989-90. the seventh house of the navamsha. the period in which he got married. (January 14. 1990). In the same sub-period of Sagittarius. the house of acCidents. he died on May I 7. 1990. He was running the period of the Atmakaraka in Capricorn. In the Vimshottari dasha - It was the period of the Sun. the lagna lord (representing the body) in the third house of travels and the sub-period of Rahu who is aspected by Mars from the fourth house. Mars is the planet of violence. The sub-sub period was thi\! of Saturn. the sixth lord of accidents. aspecting the Sun in the third house. To sum up. these three cases show - (a) In the case of the younger brother. it was the Sagittarius dasha. aspected by AK. a retrograde. (b) In the case of the elder sister. it was the dasha of the AK. (c) In the case of the person who died. it was the dasha of the AK. The meaning of filII in the dasha of the AK can be tested by applying jaimini dashas. Sthira dasha done the way I learnt from a north Indian scholar. which is different from what other astrologers give in their books. also shows the importance of the dasha of At<. 121

---

#### Extract 4 - Page 51

Predicting through Jaimini's Chara Dasha Predictive Techniques Cancer April .. .... ... .. .. .... 1965 to February 1966 Gemini February .... .. .. .... 1966 to December 1966 Taurus December ........... 1966 to October 1967 Aries October. ............. 1967 to August 1968 Pisces August ... .... ....... 1968 to June 1969 Aquarius June ................. 1969 to April 1970 Capricorn April ................. 1970 to February 1971 Sagittarius February ............ 1971 to December 1971 Scorpio December. .......... 1971 to October 1972 How Predictions are made From Scorpio whose dasha is running, the fifth house receives the aspects of the Sun. Mercury. Ketu and Jupiter. The fifth house being the house of education, the native did very well in studies in this period. He appeared for the all India competitive examinations and was selected in the sub-period of Sagittarius. which has from it a strong tenth house. Virgo. with the Sun (government service). In the last sub period of ScorpiO which contains his Darakaraka (Dara means spouse) he got married. Hints In making predictions the method to be followed in the simple exercise is - 1. First treat the rashi whose dasha is running as the lagna and see which houses are strong. 2. Then note all the promises of that rashi dasha. 3. Now analyse each sub-period. Here Sagittarius proves good for the carrier and Scorpio for marriage. Excercise Two I. All karakas have been mentioned. 2. The Karakamsha is Sagittarius. 3. The Pada Lagna Is Virgo. 4. The Upa-pada is Gemini. 5. The dasha order will be indirect - Taurus. Aries. Pisces. etc. 6. Calculated dasha periods are being given. 7. The dasha period of Scorpio will be calculated (direct) upto Ketu. ignoring Mars which is in ScorpiO itself. The dasha period of Aquarius (indirect) will be calculated upto Saturn which. like Rahu, is with one planet but has higher degrees. 51

---

#### Extract 5 - Page 4

Aclmowledgements Predicting through Jaimini's Chara Oasha . honoured me with a Gold Medal, proclaiming rather loudly that for three thousand years no such research had been done on laimini's method of predictlng through a dasha, in this case, the Chara Dasha. Mr. Satlsh Sharma who now teaches laimini astrology at laipur got it tested comprehensively. Three years, thirty years, three hundred years or three thousand years was not material. They had tested my research on hundreds of horoscopes and got more than 60% (sixty percent) results which amazed them, and much faster than they were getting earlier through the Vimshottari Dasha. As had happened many times before with me, this aroused petty iealousy even from those who should have known better, having learnt it themselves when 1 taught it to them and tried it. I do not bother for such petty men but they should go through all the ]aimini literature available and see if there is a single book which shows how to use effectively even one ]aimini dasha. Mine was a painstaking labour of over twenty flve years. Here were the petty men who felt jealous, having themselves produced nothing in the nature of even a tiny testable and replicable research. Worse, they seemed to lack gratitude which will never qualify them for any moral excellence as astrOlogers. Most of the astrologers do not know the difference between manufacturing books and producing research. If I had kept the research a secret, I would have been predicting successfully through Chara Dasha and other ]aimini Dashas. earned a name for myself but failed to promote laimini astrology which I had decided to do. It needed courage to do it, but 1 was so confldent of my success. In ]aipur, some astrologers who were initially hostile to my research, tested it thoroughly and praised me to the skies. Praise or blame should make no difference. The research is there before you and you may try it out yourself. This book is based on series of articles on laimini's Chara Dasha which were originally In the Astrological Magazine. It was a romantic moment for me because I was presenting the most revolutionary research In laimini ,showing the use of Karakas and of Chara Dasha for predicting events which was never done by any astrologer ever before. There is no hint available in the Sutra5 of ]alminl or Karkas on it about the use of Karakas and the use of the dasha for predicting events. All this I did single handedly and after testing it for nearly a decade published it. No laimini scholar ever raised a single technical point for discussion. Dr. Raman' had enough opportunity from 1991 when it was published in his own Astrological Magazine till his death on 20 December 1998 t9 discuss it technically. or get it discussed technically. 4

---

#### Extract 6 - Page 33

Chapter-3 Chara Dasha Order In Jaimini astrology the dashas are of rashis and not of nakshatras (constellations). Therefore, we speak of dasha of Aries, Taurus, Gemini ... Pisces etc. Similar Is the nomenclature of the sub-periods. Here we will describe a particular period as, for example - Aries mahadasha or Aries major period and Scorpio sub-period. The most important prindple to remember is the order of the Chara dasha. And this order is - six dashas are direct or forward and remaining six are indirect or backward. ,r-, How is this to be decided? Now follow the logic step by step. The First Step - Note the ninth house from lagna. From Aries it is Sagittarius: from Taurus It is Capricorn and so on. The Second Step - If the ninth house from the lagna is Aries, Taurus, Gemini, libra, Scorpio or Sagittarius then the dasha order will be direct or forward. The Third Step - if the ninth house from the iagna Is of the remaining rashis, e.g., Cancer, leo, Virgo, Capricorn, Aquarius or Pisces then the dasha order will be indirect or backward. Thus the twelve houses of the zodiac get divided into two groups: the direct group and the indirect group. The Direct Lagna Group Aries, leo, Virgo, Libra, Aquarius and Pisces. Note - Remember Aries, Aquarius, Pisces and the seventh house from them. The Indirect Lagna Group Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Scorpio, Sagittarius and Capricorn. Note - Remember Taurus, Gemini, Cancer and the seventh house from them. 33

---

#### Extract 7 - Page 58

The First Lesson - Childhood Predicting through Jaiminrs Chara Dasha and is aspected by Jupiter from the ninth house. The debilitation of M ars also gets annuled by the aspect of Jupiter in such a case. The Second Illustration (Chart 4) Here the Chara dasha is being used to show the departure I have made from the widely prevalent method of calculating Chara dasha. .01 M" '" Moon 6 Chart - 4 Ven Sun " Oct. 8, 1958 MerAmK .01 00:01 am. Roh Delhi Sat AK Jup Ven Sun MerAmK Roh Lagna Sun Moon Mars Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu 29°13' 20°41' 11°34' 09°1]' 12°42' 11 °48' 27°23' 29°17' The Gemini.. ...... period ran from 1958 to 1961 (no extra addition has been taken for exalted Mercury here). The Taurus ... ..... period was from 1961 to 1965 (no extra deduction has been given for debilitated Venus). The Aries .......... period was upto 1966. The Pisces ......... period was upto 1971. The Aquarius ..... period was upto 1976 (here Rahu being with more planets is stronger). The Capricorn .... period was upto 1978. The Sagittarius .. period ran for full ten years upto 1988. '. This young man underwent a special professional course in computer engineering during this period in a foreign country and has made velY ~ good career. The first sub-period in this period was of Scorpio from where Amatyakaraka aspects the fifth house. Note - In Vimshottari dasha he was running the period of exalted MerculY from 1966 to 1983 when he completed his special technical education and started a velY good career. 58

---

#### Extract 8 - Page 106

The Oasha of the Atmakaraka Predicting through Jalminl Chlrl Dasha proverbial aunt Sally for astrologers now. The act. for the first time. lumped stargazers with terrorists to declare that action would be taken against whoever "predicts. prophesises or pronounces or otherwise expresses. in such manner a'> to incite. advise, suggest or prompt. the killing or the destruction of any persons bound by oath under the Constitution ..... Thus. an astrologer predicting Rajiv Gandhi's assassination would have been liable to a minimum of seven years' imprisonment. - The Times of India Rallv Gandhi 's death was seen by me by applying some other dashas of laimini (the Sthira dasha, particularly), and also the VimshoUari dasha. But the application of the Vlmshottari dasha was purely dassical, not the extensIon of the Atmakaraka of laiminl to the Vimshottarl. ' In my book, Predicting through Karakamsha and /aimlnl's Mandook D.uha, which was brought after this book r have shown major events of the life of Rajiv Gandhi. Here also a full length portrait of Rallv Gandhi will be given at the end. Yet when an astrOloger wrote to me that r had missed the important event, I had to remind him and others, that; 1. 1 was (he only astrOloger in India to have predicted it, and one year In advance, on the basis of l eo lagna of Rajlv Gandhi to which I had stuck consistently. In a Jetter to the editor of the Astrological Magazine I wrote that Rallv Gandhi 's lagna had to be only Leo. Yet for another six years the magazine used Virgo for him. Z. The Astra/og ledl Magazine always discussed the horoscope of Rajiv Gandhi giving him Virgo ascendant till the end of 1990. In 1984 the Astrological Magazine discussed this horoscope with wrong birth time and used Chitra Pilkshil Ayanamsha not Raman's. Then in 199 1 the same horoscope was discussed with a different birth time and with Raman Ayanamsha. If both horoscopes are compared, the Karakas get totally mangled. Then most enigmatically In 1991 , the AstrologlCdl Magazine switched over to Leo ascendant for Rajiv Gandhi and In March 1991 predicted the end of Rajiv era. M ost significantly , I chose the Kaal Chakra dasha predict this lO) event and not the other dashas because, after checking In the other dashas r applied this for some very clear reasons - I . The Kaal Chakta dasha is a combination of the features of Parashara's nakshatra dashas and Jaimini dashas - the discovery or invention of a super-geniUS or a great yogi or both, which the great Rishi P"rashara was. 106

---

#### Extract 9 - Page 76

Marriage Related Problems Predicting through Jaiminl's Chara Oa$ha Cancer is the seventh house of both the birth and the navamsha lagnas. leo has upapada. In Vimshottarl it was the period of Moon Mars. Note - It was too brief and needs to be explained elaborately. In the horoscope of the husband 1. The ascendant is Capricorn and the seventh house is Cancer. 2. In the navamsha the ascendant is again Capricorn and the seventh house is .gain Cancer. 3. The Oarapada (pada of the 7th house) is Virgo. 4. The upapada Is Leo. 5. The Oarakaraka Is Mars in Taurus In the navamsha. The Chara dasha when marriage took place can be worked out now. Chara Dasha Capricorn ......................... 1946 to 1952 Sagittarius ...................... . 1952 to 1962 Scorpio ........................... 1962 to 1963 Libra ... .......... .............. .... 1963 to 1975 Ubra dasha is of twelve years so the sub-periods will be of one year each. Proceed - Scorpio upto - 1964; Sagittarius - 1965: Caprlcorn- 1966: Aquarius - 1967; Pisces - 1968; Aries - 1969: Taurus - 1970; Gemini - 1971 ; Cancer - 1972; upto 1973 the sub-period of Leo is reached. The seventh lord being there, the marriage was fixed. The marriage took place in the sub-period of Virgo which contains the Darapada. The Horoscope of the Wife The ascendant is Cancer "nd the seventh house is Capricorn. O"rakdrakd is the Moon and concenu"te on it. The O"r"pada Is VIrgo. The Upapada Is Sagittarius. Chara Dasha Cancer ............................. 1956 to 1959 Gemini ..... ....................... 1959 to 1962 Taurus ............................ 1962 to 1963 Aries .................. ............. 1963 to 1973 Pisces .............................. 1973 to 1980 The m"rriage was .settled in Aries dash". The m"rri"ge took place in the major period of Pisces which is seventh from Darapada and in the sub-period of Taurus which 7th house of the navamsha lagna. The Role of the Vimshottari Dasha In the case of the husband the sub-period was of Ma.tS which is the Darakaraka (remember the principle of extension of jaimini's karakas to 76

---

#### Extract 10 - Page 115

Predicting through Jalmlnl Chara Dasha The Dasha of the Atmakaraka But I have seen In the case of violent deaths, some common features in the birth horoscope, in the navamsha, drekkana. and the condition of the AK and the Karakamsha whether or not Sagittarius is invovled. Yet. I have seen repeatedly that Sitglttarlus dasha In litlmlni is it period of rise and also sickness. Very few astrologers will apply triple check before predicting such events. The triple check should be - first through the very familiar Vimshonari dasha, then jalmlni 's Chara dasha and a second jaimlnl dasha. If one knows It. Notes - I. This part of my research need not have formed an Integral part of my revelations of over two decades of research Into the timing of events through jalmini Chara dasha as It is too advanced even for those familiar with jaimini astrolOgy and who have translated the meaning of jalmlnl Sutras, without first verifying through practical studies, whether their understanding of the content and meaning of the Sutras was sound enough or not. 2. At any rate, since It got published. I have done further research in these spedflc areas from jalmlnl angle and can now say with confidence that between 1991 when I wrote these and now (1995) my research has come to a very satisfying conclusion. w hich, to say the least, is frightening. 3, Part of the vast research referred to Is now available In my other book on jaimini. "Predicting through Karakamsha and la/mInI's Mandook Dasha', • 115

---

#### Extract 11 - Page 40

Chapter- 6 Calculation of Jaimini Chara Dasha In this book only one dash" of !aimini, known as lalmini Ch.na dash. ... is being Introduced with the Intention of helping astrOlogers start straight away with the predictive uses of !aimini dashas. There are many books on lalmlnl astrology but not a single one shows how the Chara dasha Is to be used for predictions. Dr. Raman's book, Studies in laimlnl Astrology shows the uses of only Nirayana Shool .... Dasha to a limited extent for timing the death of father, mother, brother, wife. husband, etc. The question whether Chara dash" can be made use of In timing all types of events in a man's life has been left untouched by all writers on )almlnl astrology. This omission. It appears, Is for two reasons - first is that In !aimini Sutras. there 15 no clear hint about the predictive use of various dashas; the second reason Is that the writers on !aimlnl have not tried the various dashas and tested them through repeated applications to various horoscopes for giving predictions. The first ever published artldes showing how Chara dilSha could be used for predictions \oVere the series of artldes written by me and published in the Astrological Magazine In 1992. Here I referred to my differences with all other wrirers In the computation of Chara dilSha, InvitIng them to express their differences. No one wrote a single letter against my writings. Obviously, they accepted what I wrote or had not done (heir own research to have definltt: difference with the d practical applkdtion J showed In (he ilJustrdtlons given by me. Those papers hdve been Induded as Ci15e studies at the end of this book. The steps to be followed in computing the Chara dasha are ~ 1. First write down the order of the dasha as explained in Chapter Three. 2. Now divide the twelve rashis into two groups of six rashls each. The first g/oup·s counting is to be done In the direct way and the second group·s countiog is to be done In the indirect way. A very easy way of remembering this grouping is to write under direct group the names of the first three rashis and then 40

---

#### Extract 12 - Page 57

Predicting through Jaiminl's Chara Dasha The Firs' Lesson - Childhood How this is be seen is being shown here through examples. [0 Educat ion The Fk st Illustration (Chart 3) Here the ascendant Is Cancer so the dasha order will be indirect: s,o JV,'." R.h L., ." Chart - J May 4, 1963 1 7 11 :55 am. '"' , .. lucknow .. , 10 K" .~ Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Saturn Rahu 21°20' 19°44' 01°01' 23°06' 06°58' 13°36' 29·04' 29"40' Cancer, Gemini, Taurus, Aries, Pisces, etc. The Cancer ....... . period ran from 1963 to 1913. The Gemini.. ...... period was from 1913 to 1984. The sub-periods. in Gemini major period were - rallIUS, Aries, Pisces, Aquarius, Capricorn, Sagittarius, Scorpio which ran from November 1979 to October 1980. Now the features of the Gemini period are that from here two benencs, Jupiter and Venus are in the tenth house while another benefic, the Moon is in the fourth house. Such a period will be predominantly good. In November 1979 when she reached the sub-period of $corpio, she got again two benefics in the fifth house aspected by the Moon. She did exceedingly well in her studies and decided to appear for the competitive examination for a medial career. She reached the sub-period of libra from where the AmK is in the tenth house, aspectlng her fifth house of eduatlon. She succeeded in the competitive examination and was selected. Note - It is always necessary to cross-check such events by looking at the corresponding Vimshottari dasha at that period. She was running the major period of MatS from 1977 and it is her fifth lord of education 57

---

#### Extract 13 - Page 104

Rajyogas - Position Givers Predicting through Jalmini Chara Dasha but his mother, Indira Gandhi tried to groom him into a future prime minister of India, so unsuccessfully. What have been given in this part of the book are my own researches of years which I have tested on hundreds of horoscopes. Naturally I insist with absolute confidence that these researches can be made use of for good and sound predltions and should be combined with the Vimshottari dasha also. The reason for this will be explained under the heading, 'Limitations of the Chara dasha' in the chapter - 'Conclusion and Suggestions'. In this chapter it has been snown how the Navamsha becomes the crudal tool for a better analysis. Then there are Aner and Anest tools in which our researches are giving us brilliant results. They are not being given here for some reasons - Arst let people get used to the Chara dasha In a simple wa:f; when they show keen interest only then some of the other researches can be published. TIll now there existed no book in the world on the use of the Chara dasha for predictions, just as there existed none on Yogini dasha till Jhanji and Sharma published the Arst ever book in the world, and so brilliantly illustrated at that. 104

---

#### Extract 14 - Page 113

Predicting through J,lmlnl CNir1l Onha The Dasha of/he A/mal/am. (a) Indira Gandhi became most powerful as the prime minister of India in the dasha of her AK, Saturn (Vimshottari), fell in Saturn·Ketu, came back in the middle of Saturn·Venus but was shot dead in Saturn·Rahu. (b) Raliv Gandhi lost power in Rahu-Mercury, Mercury ( Vimshottari )Is his AK so excellently conjoined with other benelks, stili made him India's most powerful ever opposition leader. It was not a fall in the accepted sense of the term. But he died in Rahu-Mercury period. in the of his AK. while his mother Indira Gandhi su~perlod had died in the major dasha of her AK. But when the rnaraka period comes. one dies whether it Is the dasha of AK or not. For maraka certain other rules have to be applied. Chart 5 I examined the horoscopes of some high placed bureaucrats and found the results of AK's dasha equally baffling. The horoscope of an officer of the indian Administrative Officer is given here. He went on getting his normal promotions, I gave him many predictions. one of which was that he would have a lot of earnings In his Sun dasha from abroad which neither he nor his wife would accept, He became an expert in oceanography and started jnternational consultancy while in the meantime he was denied his promotion to the post of secretary to the government of India during the Sun-Jupiter period. After taking voluntary retirement he has earned so much that he does not know how best to Invest It. Was it a fall? Or was it a period of prosperity though he was denied promotions? I know of many cases when Rah Jup v," Moo<> Ch.rt 5 Feb. 12. 1930 4:00 a.m. 1ST M" S - ," Ludhiana u, .ot !Ur,k· Sot ,mah. Lagna Sun Moon Mars Jupiter 06°32' 29°24' 09°05' 11 °08' 130 42' 113

---

#### Extract 15 - Page 114

The Dasha 01 the Atmakaraka Predicting through Jalmlnl Chara Dasha promotions were denied and AK had no tole In it. In another case of a man in legal profesSion, a very significant change came in his career In the sub-period of his AK when he changed from one post to another with tremendous finandal benefit and also enhanced status. All that can be said about the role of AK, whether It is the Vlmshottari dasha or the Chara dasha that one must wait and watch and do deep research and not to jump to sensational conclusions. Atmakaraka in Sagittarius One of the favourite tricks of astrologers is to seek an explanation for their failures behind a classical ptlndple which they may not have tested themselves. Now one of the best explanations is that If AK Is in Sagittarius or if the Karakamsha lagna is Sagittarius there will be a fall. Now what does fall mean? It can mean, let me say from my experience. any of these three things - (a) Fall from a height physically, fall from a high position from a hill, from a top floor or even an aeroplane. (b) It can mean sudden death from such diseases as cause death. (c) It can mean assassination or violent death. But this is not coming correct in ail cases if it is applied as a general rule to an individual. I have worked on fourteen different dashas of Jaiminl wtth varying successes In them and now say confidently about nine of them have given me hlger percentage of results, In all these dashas what I have observed is that the results given by Jalminl seem to manifest In the major or sub--periods. An Interesting corollary to this prindple Is that I have seen people making careers in Sagittarius dashas. Saglttatlus as the koditIlda rashl must bestow position of authority to allow someone to a position of height. See four contrasting examples from the same family, the Nehrus. (a) Pt. Nehru has his AK. the Moon, In Saglttatlus navamsha but he died of an Illness, not suddenly . . fb) Indira Gandhi has her AK, Saturn, in Cancer with Capricorn navamsha and she died a violent death. (c) Sanjay Gandhi has his AK, Venus, in Libra and Taurus navamsha and he died:v iolent death. (d) RaJlv Gandhi has his AK. Mercury. in leo and Sagittarius navamsha and he died a gruesome violent death. llke his brother and mother but. unlike his grandfather. 114

---

